Source document ID: JAMA2025_9110_D01_MAIN
Source PDF: jama_summers_2025_oi_250040_1753124024.36498.pdf
Source PDF page: 9
Extraction method: native
Native extraction quality: acceptable
---
Seventh, although there are limitations to composite
outcomes,32 theoutcomeofdaysaliveandoutofthehospital
hasbeenvalidatedinsettingswheremortalityaloneisinsuf-
ficient to capture the burden of disease because it is impor-
tanttopatientsandallowsquantificationofhealthcarecosts
whileconsideringthecompetingriskofearlydeath.
33,34 Eighth,
to analyze the primary outcome, both quantile35 and linear
models36 werefitted;giventhedistributionofthisoutcome,
neither model is optimal but both are valid. Ninth, data col-
lection for this pragmatic trial was parsimonious with some
missingheightandweightdata,proteindeliverywasonlyre-
corded on certain days, and the frequency and intensity of
physical rehabilitation sessions were not captured. A com-
pletecaseanalysiswasusedforthesecondaryoutcomes,which
hasitslimitations,butalignswithpreviouslypublishedclus-
tercrossovertrials.
37
Conclusions
In critically ill patients, augmenting enteral protein delivery
didnotincreasedaysfreeoftheindexhospitalandaliveatday
90comparedwithusualcare.Thesedatadonotsupportaug-
mentingenteralproteinduringcriticalillness.
ARTICLE INFORMATION
Accepted for Publication: May 19, 2025.
Published Online: June 11, 2025.
doi:10.1001/jama.2025.9110
Author Affiliations: Discipline of Acute Care
Medicine, The University of Adelaide, Adelaide,
South Australia, Australia (Summers, Chapple,
Chapman, Finnis, O’Connor, Peake, Williams);
Intensive Care Unit, Royal Adelaide Hospital,
Adelaide, South Australia, Australia (Summers,
Chapple, Chapman, Finnis, O’Connor); Centre for
Research Excellence in Translating Nutritional
Science to Good Health, University of Adelaide,
Adelaide, South Australia, Australia (Chapple,
Chapman); Australian and New Zealand Intensive
Care Research Centre, Monash University,
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia (Chapple, Bellomo,
Chapman, Finnis, Peake, Presneill, Ridley, Williams);
Centre for Epidemiology and Biostatistics,
Melbourne School of Population and Global Health,
Faculty of Medicine, Dentistry and Health Sciences,
University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia (Karahalios, Zaloumis); Methods and
Implementation Support for Clinical and Health
research (MISCH) Hub, Faculty of Medicine,
Dentistry and Health Sciences, University of
Melbourne, Melbourne, Australia (Karahalios,
Tran-Duy, Zaloumis); Intensive Care Unit, Austin
Health, Heidelberg, Victoria, Australia (Bellomo);
Department of Critical Care, The University of
Melbourne, Melbourne, Australia (Bellomo, Finnis,
French, Maiden, Presneill, Young, Deane);
Department of Nutrition & Dietetics, Royal Prince
Alfred Hospital, Camperdown, New South Wales,
Australia (Ferrie); Faculty of Medicine and Health,
University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia (Ferrie);
Intensive Care Unit, Sunshine Hospital, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia (French, Young); Medical
Research Institute of New Zealand, Wellington,
New Zealand (Hurford); Intensive Care Unit,
University Hospital Geelong, Geelong, Victoria,
Australia (Kakho, Maiden); Intensive Care Unit,
Royal Melbourne Hospital, Parkville, Victoria,
Australia (Maiden, Presneill, Deane); Department of
Intensive Care Medicine, The Queen Elizabeth
Hospital, Woodville South, South Australia,
Australia (Peake, Williams); Dietetics and Nutrition,
Alfred Hospital, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia
(Ridley); Centre for Health Policy, Melbourne School
of Population and Global Health, The University of
Melbourne, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia
(Tran-Duy); Intensive Care Unit, Wellington
Hospital, Wellington, New Zealand (Young).
Author Contributions: Dr Deane had full access to
all of the data in the study and takes responsibility
for the integrity of the data and the accuracy of the
data analysis. Mr Summers and Dr Chapple
contributed equally as co–first authors.
Concept and design: Summers, Chapple, Karahalios,
Bellomo, Chapman, Finnis, Maiden, O'Connor,
Peake, Presneill, Ridley, Williams, Young, Deane.
Acquisition, analysis, or interpretation of data:
Summers, Chapple, Karahalios, Chapman, Ferrie,
Finnis, French, Hurford, Kakho, Maiden, O'Connor,
Peake, Presneill, Tran-Duy, Young, Zaloumis, Deane.
Drafting of the manuscript: Summers, Chapple,
Bellomo, Chapman, Finnis, Peake, Presneill, Ridley,
Young, Zaloumis, Deane.
Critical review of the manuscript for important
intellectual content: All authors.
Statistical analysis: Karahalios, Finnis, Peake,
Zaloumis, Deane.
Obtained funding: Chapple, Karahalios, Chapman,
Peake, Tran-Duy, Deane.
Administrative, technical, or material support:
Summers, Chapple, Bellomo, Chapman, Ferrie,
Finnis, Hurford, Maiden, O'Connor, Peake, Williams,
Young.
Supervision: Chapple, Bellomo, Chapman, French,
Maiden, Peake, Presneill, Deane.
Other - Study management committee member:
Ridley.
Conflict of Interest Disclosures: Dr Chapple
reported receiving personal fees from Nutricia and
Fresenius Kabi outside the submitted work. Dr
Karahalios reported receiving grants from Medical
Research Future Fund during the conduct of the
study. Dr Chapman reported receiving grants from
National Health and Medical Research Council
(NHMRC) during the conduct of the study. Dr
French reported receiving grants from NHMRC
during the conduct of the study. Dr Presneill
reported receiving grants from Australian
Government Medical Research Future Fund (grant
application number 2014786), Australian and New
Zealand Intensive Care Foundation Project (grant
project identification number: 2138), and Nutricia
Australia Pty Limited to support the costs of the
trial enteral formulae during the conduct of the
study. Dr Ridley reported receiving personal fees
from Nutricia Australia and personal fees from
Fresenius Kabi Australia outside the submitted
work. Dr Young reported receiving grants from
Health Research Council of New Zealand outside
the submitted work. Dr Deane reported receiving
grants from National Health and Medical Research
Council Medical Research Future Fund, Australian
and New Zealand Intensive Care Foundation,
Nutricia Australia Pty Limited, and National Health
and Medical Research Council and lecture fees paid
to institution from Baxter Healthcare during the
conduct of the study. No other disclosures were
reported.
Funding/Support: The trial was funded by national
peer reviewed organizations—a National Health and
Medical Research Council Medical Research Future
Fund rare cancers, rare disease and unmet need
streams grant (2022-2025) and an Australian and
New Zealand Intensive Care Foundation project
grant (2022). Nutricia Australia Pty Ltd provided an
unrestricted grant to support the costs of study
sites purchasing both the trial enteral formulae and
dissemination of results (2022), and
representatives from Nutricia were provided the
trial protocol prior to trial commencement and the
manuscript prior to journal submission.
Role of the Funder/Sponsor:The funders had no
role in the design and conduct of the study;
collection, management, analysis, and
interpretation of the data; preparation, review, or
approval of the manuscript; and decision to submit
the manuscript for publication.
Group Information: The TARGET Protein
Investigators and the Australian and New Zealand
Intensive Care Society Clinical Trials Group are listed
in Supplement 4.
Data Sharing Statement: See Supplement 5.
Additional Contributions: This research was
conducted during the tenure of a Health Research
Council of New Zealand Clinical Practitioner
Research Fellowship held by Dr Young. The Medical
Research Institute of New Zealand is supported by
Independent Research Organisation funding from
the Health Research Council of New Zealand.
Additional Information: Coauthor Rinaldo
Bellomo, PhD, died on May 6, 2025.
REFERENCES
1. Nicolo M, Heyland DK, Chittams J, Sammarco T ,
Compher C. Clinical outcomes related to protein
delivery in a critically ill population: a multicenter,
multinational observation study.JPEN J Parenter
Enteral Nutr. 2016;40(1):45-51. doi:10.1177/
0148607115583675
2. Compher C, Bingham AL, McCall M, et al.
Guidelines for the provision of nutrition support
therapy in the adult critically ill patient: the
American Society for Parenteral and Enteral
Nutrition. JPEN J Parenter Enteral Nutr. 2022;46(1):
12-41. doi:10.1002/jpen.2267
3. Singer P , Blaser AR, Berger MM, et al. ESPEN
guideline on clinical nutrition in the intensive care
unit. Clin Nutr. 2019;38(1):48-79. doi:10.1016/j.clnu.
2018.08.037
Augmented Enteral Protein During Critical Illness Original Investigation Research
jama.com (Reprinted) JAMA July 22/29, 2025 Volume 334, Number 4 327
© 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.
Downloaded from jamanetwork.com by University of Arizona Health Sciences Library user on 07/23/2026
