Source document ID: JAMA2025_9110_D04_RESULTS_SUPP
Source PDF: joi250040supp3_prod_1753124024.38098.pdf
Source PDF page: 29
Extraction method: OCR (native retained separately)
Native extraction quality: sparse
---
Instrument for assessing the Credibility of Effect Modification Analyses (ICEMAN) in
randomized controlled trials
Instrument for assessing the Credibility of Effect Modification Analyses (ICEMAN) in randomized
controlled trials
Quick Instructions
© Synonyms for effect modification include subgroup effect, interaction, and moderation
‘© The instrument applies to a single proposed effect modification at a time; complete one form per each outcome, time-point, effect measure,
and effect modifier
© Response options on the left indicate definitely or probably reduced, response options on the right probably or definitely increased credibility
* Completely unclear goes under probably reduced credibility
© itis helpful to provide a supporting comment or quotation under each question
‘© Whether an effect modification is patient-important is not part of the credibility assessment
© The manual provides more detailed instructions and examples
Preliminary considerations
Study reference(s}: TARGET Protein - heterogeneity of effect in patients receiving mechanical ventilation
If available, protocol reference(s):
State a single outcome and, if applicable, time-point of interest (e.g. mortality at 1 year follow-up): Days free of hospital and alive at day 90
‘State a single effect measure of interest (e.g. relative or absolute risk difference): Median (95 % confidence intervals)
State a single potential effect modifier of interest (e.g. age or comorbidity): Mechanical ventilation
Was the potential effect modifier measured before randomization? [ *] yes, continue [ ] no, stop here, refer to manual for further instructions
Credibility assessment
1: Was the direction of the effect modification correctly hypothesized a priori?
Clearly post-hoc or results Vague hypothesis or hypothesized No prior protocol available but Prior protocol available and
inconsistent with hypothesized _ direction unclear unequivocal statement of a priori includes correct specification of
direction or biologically very hypothesis with correct direction of direction of effect modification, e.g.
‘Comment: Hypothesized greater benefit to be observed in those receiving mechanical ventilation at baseline
2: Was the effect modification supported by prior evidence?
[ ] Inconsistent with prior evidence [*] Little or no support or [ ] Some support [ ] Strong support
‘@rideavidence suggested a No prior evidence or consistent Consistent with more limited or Consistent with strong prior
different direction of effect with weak or very indirect prior _indirect prior evidence (e.g. large _ evidence directly applicable to the
modification evidence (e.g. animal study at high observational study, non-significant clinical scenario (e.g. significant
risk of bias) or unclear effect modification in prior RCT, or effect modification in related RCT)
_ different population)
‘Comment: No existing data to support
3: Does a test for interaction suggest that chance is an unlikely explanation of the apparent effect modification? (consider irrespective of
number of effect modifiers)
[ ] Chance a very likely explanation [*] Chance a likely explanation or [ ] Chance may not explain [ ] Chance an unlikely explanation
unclear
Interaction p-value >0.05 Interaction p-value $0.05 and Interaction p-value $0.01 and Interaction p-value $0.005
>0.01, or no test of interaction 20.005
reported and not computable
‘Comment: P=0.023
4: Did the authors test only a small number of effect modifiers or consider the number in their statistical analysis?
Explicitly exploratory analysis or large No mention of number or 4-10 effect No protocol available but unequivocal Protocol available and 3 or fewer effect
number of effect modifiers tested (e.g. modifiers tested and number not statement of 3 or fewer effect modifiers modifiers tested or number considered
greater than 10) and multiplicity not considered in analysis tested in analysis
Comment: Four effect modifiers tested.
Appendix to: Schandelmaier 5, Briel M, Varadhan R, et al. Development of the instrument to assess the Credibility of Effect Modification Analyses (ICEMAN)
in randomized controlled trials and meta-analyses. CMAJ 2020. doi: 10.1503/cmaj.200077. Copyright © 2020 The Author(s) or their employer(s).
To receive this resource in an accessible format, please contact us at cmajgroup@cmaj.ca.
Supplemental Material for TARGET Protein V3.0 19.02.2025 29
