•

Age (<50 years, 50-74 years, 75 years and older)

•

ERAS protocol compliance (High, moderate, low)

A stricter level of statistical significance (2-sided 1% significance level) will be applied to these
analyses given their exploratory nature. Corresponding 99% confidence intervals will therefore
be calculated.

11.6 Sensitivity analysis
As per recommendation2, a sensitivity analyses on the primary outcome will include multiple
imputation such as MICE and/or we will explore a range of values for missing data imputed
under missing not at random assumptions (such as pattern mixture models) if the missingness
is >10%. The extent of missingness will be assessed along with a determination of if the data
are MAR or MCAR.
As Edinburgh is the sponsor site, it is expected to have the largest recruitment. Therefore, a
sensitivity analysis comparing Edinburgh with the rest of the centres will be performed.

11.7 Compliance
There are two levels of compliance within ALLEGRO: (i) patients who were eligible to receive
IMP/placebo, but who did not and (ii) patients who did not receive the intended duration of
IMP/placebo. Both will be explored in a compliance analysis.

11.8 Missing Data
11.8.1 Missing Outcome Data
The sensitivities of treatment effect estimate to missing all primary outcome data will be
explored; these models will explore the robustness of the treatment estimate to whatever small
amount of missing data there is. We will follow the strategy outlined in White et al2. The
analysis will use all available data that we believe are valid under the assumption of missing at
random. We will then use a suite of sensitivity analysis to explore the robustness of the primary
outcome to departures from assumption, including all randomised participants. If required,
sensitivity analyses will include multiple imputation, and imputing a range of values for
missing data under missing not at random assumptions.

Statistical Analysis Plan – Minimally Invasive, version 2

Page 15 of 38

