ALLEGRO
This is the statistical analysis plan (SAP) and accompanying documents detailing the statistical
analyses planned for the ALLEGRO Trial. The SAP is based on the protocol version 8 and any
deviations from the plan will be described.
1

Introduction

Delayed return of gut function is the most common cause of delayed discharge from hospital
after elective colorectal surgery. Although self-limiting it prolongs hospital stay by a few days
in most cases but can last up to 10 days if severe. Affected patients cannot tolerate oral intake
due to nausea and vomiting requiring intravenous fluids and ongoing opioid analgesia. In
comorbid, frail or elderly patients the development of gut dysfunction can contribute to other
major complications including pulmonary aspiration, pneumonia and acute kidney impairment.
There are no specific preventative or therapeutic interventions to induce return of gut function
in current use. From the evidence available, intravenous lidocaine may improve return of gut
function and is the motivation for this placebo controlled rAndomised trial of intravenous
Lidocaine in acceLErating Gastrointestinal Recovery after cOlorectal surgery (ALLEGRO).
ALLEGRO comprises two RCTs – an RCT within minimally invasive surgery and an RCT
within open surgery.
This SAP covers the minimally invasive RCT only. The open RCT will be addressed in a
separate analysis plan.

2

Study Aims and Objectives

The aim of this trial is to measure whether perioperative intravenous lidocaine achieves faster
return of gut function for more patients after colorectal surgery.

The primary objective is to compare the proportion of randomised subjects between IV
lidocaine and placebo that have achieved return of gut function at 72 hours postoperatively.

The secondary objectives are to measure whether perioperative intravenous lidocaine is effective
in achieving faster postoperative return of gut function along with other recovery metrics

Statistical Analysis Plan – Minimally Invasive, version 2

Page 7 of 38

