22


eText

eMethods
         The primary analysis of week-8 total Symptom Screening in Pediatrics Tool (SSPedi) score
adjusted for the stratification variables used for randomization. In addition, we adjusted for age and
diagnosis group as they are associated with total SSPedi scores.4 With the primary analysis, we did not
plan to adjust the model for baseline total SSPedi score because some of the care pathway interventions
might affect symptoms prior to enrollment and the baseline score may already reflect some benefit of the
cluster’s treatment assignment. However, sensitivity analysis adjusted for baseline total SSPedi score. To
account for potential differential enrollment of surgery-only patients (who might not be cared for by
oncology teams) between intervention vs. control sites, we conducted a sensitivity analysis restricted to
patients that received systemic chemotherapy.
         For the analysis of documentation of symptoms, any intervention and symptom-specific
intervention, each analysis fit a mixed effects logistic regression model to estimate the odds ratio for
documentation, any intervention and symptom-specific intervention comparing intervention and control
groups, adjusting for stratification factors. We anticipated there might be too few events to reliably fit this
mixed model to all 15 symptoms. If this model could not be fit (when sigma cluster, or random effects
variance could not be estimated), we fit a fixed effects logistic regression model only using treatment
assignment.
         The primary analysis of healthcare encounters used a mixed effects Poisson regression analysis
with a random effect for site and fixed effects for the two stratification variables. Sensitivity analysis used
negative binomial regression analysis, using both frequentist and Bayesian approaches. These adjusted
for the same covariates as the Poisson regression analysis.

eResults

         There was no difference in percentages declining participation between intervention (16.6%) and
control (15.5%) sites (P=.81). However, those who agreed to participate were significantly older than
those who declined participation (median age 14.8 vs. 13.2 years, P=.001). There were no significant
differences by male sex (58.9% vs. 60.0%, P=.94) or cancer diagnosis (leukemia, lymphoma, solid tumor
or brain tumor, P=.13).
         In terms of those who were excluded due to physician preference, there was a significant
difference by intervention (16.0%) and control (5.5%) sites (P<.001). Those participating compared to
those excluded by their physician were not significantly different by age (median age 14.8 vs. 13.7 years,
P=.12) or male sex (58.9% vs. 50.9%, P=.33). However, the distribution of cancer diagnoses differed
(P<.001).




© 2024 American Medical Association. All rights reserved.
