RATE-AF Trial Protocol                                                      Version 3.0, 25th July 2019


        digoxin has an impact on mortality in AF patients, even with concomitant heart failure, which
        highlights the need to determine treatment effects on quality of life and cardiac function.



                  Trial Design and Objectives

        RATE-AF is Prospective, Randomised Open-label Blinded Endpoint (PROBE) clinical trial
        comparing the use of digoxin and beta-blockers as initial rate control therapy.

        In this section, we discuss the trial design and study objectives. Detailed outcome measures are
        listed in Section 12.


        Justification for a PROBE rather than a Double Blind Trial Design
        Although a double blind design would be the most robust trial design with respect to bias, it would
        not be ethical to do so in this scenario as clinicians would feel the need to add therapy according
        to heart rate. In addition, the RATE-AF Trial aims to test a strategy of initial care. PROBE trial
        design maintains the benefits associated with a strict randomisation procedure, while the blinded
        end points help to eliminate bias.

        The trial design aims for a pragmatic ‘all-comers’ approach, applicable to those seen in clinical
        practice to allow transfer of the findings to routine clinical management of patients with permanent
        AF.

        Assessment and Management of Risk

        This trial is categorised by the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) as:
        Type A = No higher than the risk of standard medical care
        The assessment and management of risk is detailed in the separate RATE-AF Risk Assessment
        document. An on-going evaluation of risk will continue throughout the recruitment period.



        3.1 Hypothesis

        Null Hypothesis for primary outcome:
        No difference in patient-reported quality of life (measured using the physical functioning domain of
        the SF36 questionnaire) when comparing a strategy of digoxin versus beta-blocker therapy for
        initial rate control in patients with permanent AF.

        Alternative Hypothesis:
        Use of digoxin or beta-blocker therapy as initial rate control in patients with permanent AF is
        superior based on patient reported quality of life (measured using the physical functioning domain
        of the SF36 questionnaire).



EudraCT No.: 2015-005043-13                                                                   Page 21 of 69
RATE-AF Trial Protocol                                                      Version 3.0, 25th July 2019


        3.2 Primary objective

            x   Patient-reported quality of life (QoL), with a predefined focus on physical well-being using
                the SF-36 physical component summary at six months.
        3.3 Secondary objectives

            x   Generic and AF-specific patient-reported QoL using the SF-36 global and domain-specific
                scores, the AFEQT overall score and the EQ-5D-5L summary index and visual analogue
                scale at six and twelve months.
            x   Echocardiographic left-ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) and diastolic function (E/e’ and
                composite of diastolic indices) at twelve months.
            x   Functional assessment, including 6-minute walking distance achieved, change in European
                Heart Rhythm Association (EHRA) class and cognitive function at six and twelve months.
            x   Change in B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) levels as a surrogate for total cardiac strain at
                six months.
            x   Change in heart rate from baseline and group comparison using 24-hour ambulatory ECG.


        3.4 Feasibility objectives

            x   Successful methods for recruitment

            x   Key issues that affect retention of participants, such as convenience, compliance and cross-
                over (target of 85% study completion rate).
            x   Drug discontinuation rate and adverse reactions leading to drug discontinuation.
            x   Therapy-induced requirement for additional treatment (e.g. pacemaker implantation).
            x   Population-specific standard deviations and proportions to enable sample size calculation
                for a future trial.
            x   Assessment of cardiovascular outcomes including a composite of adverse clinical events
                (mortality, thromboembolic events, myocardial infarction and cardiovascular interventions).


        3.5 Exploratory objectives

            x   Correlation of baseline measures, including QoL questionnaires and unblinded baseline
                investigations such as QoL, BNP, LVEF, E/e’, EHRA, intracellular methods and heart rate.
            x   Impact of therapy on intracellular sodium and calcium concentration and cardiotonic steroid
                levels as biomarkers of cellular response at six and twelve months.
            x   Impact of combination therapy on outcomes, including comparison of bisoprolol/non-
                dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker (CCB) vs. bisoprolol/digoxin vs. digoxin/CCB vs.
                single therapies.
            x   Change in cognitive function at twelve months


EudraCT No.: 2015-005043-13                                                                   Page 22 of 69
