RATE-AF Trial Protocol                                                       Version 3.0, 25th July 2019


        11.7 Archiving

        Archiving will be authorised by the BCTU on behalf of the Sponsor following submission of the end
        of trial report.


        Principal Investigators are responsible for the secure archiving of essential trial documents (for
        their site) as per their NHS Trust policy. All essential documents will be archived for a minimum of
        25 years after completion of trial.
        Destruction of essential documents will require authorisation from the BCTU on behalf of the
        Sponsor.



        12 Statistical Considerations

        12.1 Outcome measures

        12.1.1      Primary Outcome
        Patient-reported quality of life (QoL) - SF-36 physical component summary score at six months



        12.1.2      Secondary Outcomes
        Patient-reported QoL:
            x    SF-36 global and domain-specific scores at 6 and 12 months

            x    EQ-5D-5L summary index and visual analogue scale at six and twelve months
            x    AFEQT overall score at six and twelve months
        Cardiac function:

            x    Echocardiographic LVEF at 12 months
            x    Diastolic function (E/e’ and composite of diastolic indices) at 12 months
            x    Functional assessment
            x    Six-minute walking distance at 6 and 12 months
            x    Change in European Heart Rhythm Association (EHRA) class at 6 and 12 months
        Biomarkers:
            x    Change in B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) levels at 6 months
            x    Change in heart rate using 24-hour ambulatory ECG



        12.1.3      Feasibility Outcomes
            x    Recruitment target of 3 patients per week across all participating centres.
            x    Compliance and reasons for non-compliance

EudraCT No.: 2015-005043-13                                                                    Page 54 of 69
RATE-AF Trial Protocol                                                        Version 3.0, 25th July 2019


            x   Number of withdrawals and losses to follow-up (with reasons)
            x   Drug discontinuation rate and adverse reactions requiring drug discontinuation.
            x   Number of patients needing therapy-induced requirement for additional treatment
            x   Population-specific standard deviations (SD) and proportions
                    o    SD of SF36 physical functioning score at 6 and 12 months
                    o    SD of SF36 overall score at 6 and 12 months
                    o    SD of AFEQT overall score at 6 and 12 months
                    o    SD of LVEF and E/e’ score at 6 and 12 months
                    o    Unplanned hospitalisation admissions rates
            x   Cardiovascular Events (particularly mortality, thromboembolic events, myocardial
                infarction and cardiovascular interventions)


        The final analyses will follow a pre-specified analysis plan, drafted in conjunction with the
        Birmingham Clinical Trials Unit and submitted to the steering committee at the penultimate meeting.
        We intend to perform a primary intention-to-treat analysis, in addition to a per-protocol analysis.

        Any additional (exploratory) analyses will be explicitly labelled as such in any subsequent
        manuscript.


        12.2 Power Calculations

        Randomising 144 patients we can assume an 85% power to detect an effect size of half a standard
        deviation in a continuous outcome measure of QoL (two-sided alpha of 0.05). A sample size of
        160 patients would account for an estimated 10% loss to follow-up (including withdrawal and death
        prior to 12-month assessment). There is some evidence from existing research to support the
        notion that the treatment effect could be this large. The mean SF-36 role-physical score from the
        rate-control arm of the RACE study was 47, with a 17% improvement with rate-control over time.62
        In another study, CCB resulted in 22% improvement in a proprietary symptom-checklist, compared
        to a non-significant 8% change in those assigned to beta-blockers (SD 10-points in both groups).
        These values are also consistent with a 17% improvement in SF-36 scores in a third trial, PIAF.63
        Thus whilst it is possible that this trial may provide a clear indication of effect, it is accepted that
        the trial will be underpowered to detect smaller differences, reinforcing the requirement for a larger
        definitive trial which would also be powered to assess impact on clinical event rates.


        12.3 Statistical analysis

        A separate Statistical Analysis Plan for the RATE-AF trial provides a detailed description of the
        planned statistical analyses. A brief outline of these analyses is given below.

        The primary comparison groups will be composed of those who are randomised to digoxin group
        and those randomised to the beta-blockers group. All analyses will be based on the intention to

EudraCT No.: 2015-005043-13                                                                     Page 55 of 69
RATE-AF Trial Protocol                                                        Version 3.0, 25th July 2019


        treat principle, with all patients analysed in the arms to which they were allocated irrespective of
        compliance with the randomised allocated treatment, and all patients will be included in the
        analyses. We will, as a sensitivity analysis, conduct per-protocol analyses, where appropriate.
        For all analyses, a p-value <0.05 will be considered statistically significant.


        12.3.1 Primary outcome analysis
        The primary outcome for this trial is the continuous SF36 physical functioning domain score at 6
        months. This outcome will be analysed using an ANCOVA model adjusting for treatment arm,
        baseline score and all minimisation variables. Results will be presented as difference in means and
        95% confidence intervals.



        12.3.2 Feasibility and Secondary outcomes analysis
        The feasibility and secondary outcomes for the trial comprise of a combination of both continuous
        and categorical (dichotomous) data items.

        Categorical endpoints:

        For outcomes which are categorical (dichotomous) in nature, the proportion of participants and
        percentages will be analysed between arms.

        Logistic/Log-binomial regression models will be fitted (where appropriate) to adjust for treatment
        arm, baseline scores and all minimisation variables.

        Results will be presented as odds ratios/relative risks and 95% confidence intervals.


        Continuous endpoints:
        Any outcomes that are continuous in nature will be analysed in the same way as the primary
        outcome.



        12.3.3 Missing data and sensitivity analyses
        Primary analysis will concentrate on available data only, with no attempt made to impute missing
        data. Where appropriate, sensitivity analyses will be carried out to examine the possible impact of
        missing data on the results (full details will be discussed within the Statistical Analysis Plan).



        12.3.4      Interim analyses and Stopping rules
        Analysis of the data with respect to efficacy and safety will be performed at 12 months and sent to
        Data Monitoring Committee (DMC); see Section 16. The DMC will outline and agree the stopping
        rules for the trial which will be documented in the DMC charter. It is likely that the Haybittle-Peto
        boundary will be used. This states that if an interim analysis shows a probability of less than 0.001
        that the treatments are different, then the trial should be stopped early. This will be used alongside

EudraCT No.: 2015-005043-13                                                                     Page 56 of 69
RATE-AF Trial Protocol                                                        Version 3.0, 25th July 2019


        data on important secondary endpoints and all other relevant evidence. A DMC report and charter
        outlining the terms of reference (including information on stopping rules) will be agreed with the
        DMEC.


        12.4 Final analysis

        The final analysis for the RATE-AF trial will occur once the last randomised participant completes
        their 12-month follow-up.



        13        Ethics and Regulatory Requirements

        The trial will be performed in accordance with the recommendations guiding physicians in
        biomedical research involving human participants, adopted by the 18th World Medical Association
        General Assembly, Helsinki, Finland, June 1964, amended at the 48th World Medical Association
        General Assembly, Somerset West, Republic of South Africa, October 1996 (website:
        http://www.wma.net/en/30publications/10policies/b3/index.html).

        The trial will be conducted in accordance with the Research Governance Framework for Health
        and Social Care, the applicable UK Statutory Instruments, (which include the Medicines for Human
        Use Clinical Trials 2004 and subsequent amendments,the latest Data Protection legislation, the
        Human Tissue Act 2008, EU Clinical Trials Directive and amendment Regulations as appropriate)
        and Guidelines for Good Clinical Practice (GCP). This trial will be carried out under a Clinical Trial
        Authorisation in accordance with the Medicines for Human Use Clinical Trials regulations. The
        protocol will be submitted to and approved by the REC prior to circulation.


        Before any participants are enrolled into the trial, the Principal Investigator at each site is required
        to obtain local R&D approval. Sites will not be permitted to enrol participants until written
        confirmation of R&D approval is received by the Principal Investigator.

        It is the responsibility of the Principal Investigator to ensure that all subsequent amendments gain
        the necessary local approval. This does not affect the individual clinicians’ responsibility to take
        immediate action if thought necessary to protect the health and interest of individual participants.

        Within 90 days after the end of the trial, the Chief Investigator/Sponsor will ensure that the REC
        and the MHRA are notified that the trial has finished. If the trial is terminated prematurely, those
        reports will be made within 15 days after the end of the trial. The Chief Investigator will provide the
        Sponsor with a summary report of the clinical trial, which will then be submitted to the MHRA and
        REC within one year after the end of the trial.




EudraCT No.: 2015-005043-13                                                                     Page 57 of 69
