GPs were contacted twice if AF was present). Subsequent care was at the discretion of
the GP.

Participants allocated to the control (usual care) arm of the study were not requested to
perform any actions directly related to the study, with clinical care remaining at the
discretion of their GP.

        Outcome comparisons
All comparisons of primary, secondary, and exploratory outcomes involve comparing
outcomes among all participants allocated at randomisation to screening versus all
participants allocated to the usual care arm (i.e. “intention-to-treat” analysis), unless
otherwise specified (i.e. non-randomised comparisons).

3.6.1      Primary outcome assessment
The primary objective of this study is to provide reliable estimates of the long-term efficacy
of AF screening. Conceptually, this may be interpreted as the actionable time window of
opportunity for intervention which results, or is gained, from screening. This window is
represented by the difference in areas under the cumulative incidence curves (i.e. time with
a known diagnosis of AF) between the active and control arms, with those not having AF
contributing zero time with known diagnosis (Figure 1). The timeframe for such an
assessment of long-term efficacy ought to represent a proposed time interval between
screening events if translated into clinical practice - for example 5 years. Hence, the ideal
primary outcome for this study would be the amount of time spent with a known diagnosis
of AF for each participant during a period of 5 years from randomisation onwards (i.e. the
actionable time period). For example, if AF was diagnosed approximately 1 year after
randomisation, then the time period spent with a known diagnosis of AF from
randomisation up to 5 years is 4 years.




AMALFI Statistical Analysis Plan v1.2 2025_06_26                                            7
        Figure 1 - Estimated cumulative percent of participants diagnosed with AF




Figure legend - Each curve represents the cumulative proportion of new AF diagnoses in the
active arm (small triangles) and control arm (small squares). The primary outcome is the
proportion of people with AF recorded within primary care records within 2.5 years after
randomisation in each arm (large solid triangle and square). The difference between both is
represented by the double-headed arrow. The secondary outcome is the mean time spent
with an AF diagnosis over a period of 5 years after randomisation (from the date of first
post-randomisation AF record until right-censoring at 5 years after randomisation, or
death/withdrawal if earlier); this is represented by the area-under-the-curve for each curve
(active arm and control arm). The difference between both is the dashed area between the
curves.
However, a more easily interpretable and timely assessment of the expected value of the
proposed screening approach can be performed by assessing the proportion with AF
detected in each arm within a period of 2.5 years from randomisation – which, based on
the statistical modelling performed of the expected AF rates during follow-up, is the
largest driver of the expected mean time spent with a known diagnosis of AF within a
period of 5 years from randomisation. Further details can be found in the study protocol.

Therefore, the primary outcome assessment will involve an intention-to-treat comparison
among all randomised participants allocated to screening versus usual care on the
presence of a record of AF (as recorded in primary care data) occurring between
randomisation and 2.5 years after randomisation (i.e. at around the midpoint of a
proposed 5-year screening interval).

3.6.2      Secondary outcome assessments
The secondary outcome assessments for the study will involve intention-to-treat
comparisons among all randomised participants allocated to screening versus usual care
on:




AMALFI Statistical Analysis Plan v1.2 2025_06_26                                         8
        the presence of a post-randomisation record of AF within a period of 2.5 years from
         randomisation (as in the primary outcome assessment) by subgroups of age (<80
         and ≥80 years) and, separately, sex
        time spent with a known AF diagnosis within a period of 5 years from
         randomisation (as described in the previous section), in the overall cohort and in
         the same subgroups mentioned above.

The secondary outcomes described will be assessed regardless of the results of the
primary outcome.

3.6.3      Exploratory outcomes
A number of exploratory outcomes will also be assessed to complement the information
provided by the primary and secondary outcomes. These are listed in detail in Section 6.4.

3.6.4      Outcome derivation
The detailed derivation of outcomes included in statistical analyses will be described in a
separate document.

         Hypothesis framework
For each of the primary and secondary outcomes, the null hypothesis will be that there is
no true difference in effect between the two study arms.

         Randomisation
Eligible patients were randomised in a 1:1 ratio to be sent an ECG monitoring patch (Zio
XT) to be self-applied and worn for a single 2-week period, versus usual care (i.e. not being
sent a patch), by the central computer in CTSU, using a minimisation algorithm to ensure
balance by important baseline variables (age [<75, ≥75 years], sex, and residual
CHA2DS2VASc score excluding age and sex [residual score 0-1, 2, 3-6]).2

         Blinding
This is an open-label study. As such, participants, their GPs, and the trial team are aware
of study arm allocation. However, while the study is in progress, access to tabular results
of study outcomes by randomised allocation will not be available to the research team, the
chief investigators, trial statisticians, or GPs. Patch monitoring data may be interrogated
to ascertain the rate of new AF diagnoses found via patch as the trial progresses.
However, neither patch data nor records of study arm allocation will be combined with
clinical data from other sources in a way that could potentially lead to unblinding prior to
preparation and production of the main trial analyses.

           Data collection schedule
3.10.1     Self-reported medical history
Upon inclusion in the trial, each participant was required to complete and return by post a
questionnaire which asked about relevant parts of their medical history to establish



AMALFI Statistical Analysis Plan v1.2 2025_06_26                                           9
eligibility. These included the components of the CHA2DS2-VASc score, and a question
about previous allergies to latex (the latter used as a screening assessment to identify
patients who might not be eligible for the trial). Self-reported information on the
components of the CHA2DS2-VASc score was used to inform the minimisation
randomisation algorithm and will be used in descriptive analyses.

3.10.2     Primary care data
Extracts from electronic primary care records will be performed via each of the
participating GP practices at three time points (counted from the date of randomisation of
the last participant randomised at each practice):

        at least 1 year after randomisation (to establish data extraction feasibility and
         allow collection of preliminary data);
        at least 2.5 years after randomisation (to support analysis of the outcomes
         specified at 2.5 years after randomisation); and
        at least 5 years after randomisation (for analysis of the outcomes specified at 5
         years after randomisation).

Data extracted from primary care records will include information on ethnicity, body mass
index, medical diagnoses, symptoms, medication prescriptions, referrals to secondary
care, procedures and diagnostic tests, and appointments/contacts with practice staff (for
clinical or administrative reasons).

3.10.3     Healthcare systems data
Healthcare systems data (in addition to primary care records) will be requested from
medical databases including those held by NHS England and equivalent bodies. This will
include the following datasets as specified in the table below.


 Dataset                    Event type             Reference


 Medicines dispensed Medication dispensing         https://digital.nhs.uk/data-and-
 in Primary Care NHS in the community              information/data-tools-and-
 Business    Services                              services/data-services/medicines-
 Authority       data                              dispensed-in-primary-care-nhsbsa-
 product (Dispensing                               data
 dataset)


 Civil Registrations of Death registrations        https://digital.nhs.uk/services/data-
 Death                                             access-request-service-dars/dars-
                                                   products-and-services/data-set-
                                                   catalogue/civil-registrations-of-death




AMALFI Statistical Analysis Plan v1.2 2025_06_26                                        10
 Emergency      Care A&E       department https://digital.nhs.uk/data-and-
 Dataset (ECDS)      attendance           information/data-collections-and-
                                          data-sets/data-sets/emergency-care-
                                          data-set-ecds


 Hospital      Episode Outpatient                       https://digital.nhs.uk/services/hospital-
 Statistics Outpatients appointments                 in episode-statistics
 (HESOP)                secondary care




 Hospital    Episode Hospitalisations
 Statistics Admitted
 Patient        Care
 (HESAPC)


 Hospital    Episode Critical                      care
 Statistics   Critical admissions
 Care (HESCC)



These data will be used to complement primary care data to identify relevant baseline
characteristics, characterise medication and healthcare use, and to collect other
information of interest which is expected not be captured adequately in primary care data
(such as deaths and need for hospitalisation, for example due to a bleed).

The datasets specified will be requested from NHS England or other institutions on an
annual basis, starting from 2022 and at least until the end of 2027 (i.e. during the
scheduled study period for the assessment of the primary and secondary outcomes). Data
may continue to be requested for up to 25 years from randomisation for all surviving
participants (unless they have withdrawn consent).

Further information on use of linked data, namely specific derivation procedures and which
data points each dataset will contribute to, will be specified in a separate document.

3.10.4     Health-related quality of life data
Health-related quality of life data will be collected using self-reported EQ-5D-5L
questionnaires. These will be mailed to the entire cohort simultaneously, at two time
points: 1) once recruitment to the trial is complete, and 2) after the results of the primary
outcome are published. Further details on the use of these data will be specified in a
separate health-economics analysis plan.

3.10.5     End of study
The main trial period is scheduled up until 5 years from randomisation. The end of study is
defined as the date of the last electronic data download at 5 years after randomisation


AMALFI Statistical Analysis Plan v1.2 2025_06_26                                               11
(from either central registries, including NHS England or others, or from a participating GP
practice). However, it is intended that data may continue to be requested from NHS
England (for up to 25 years after randomisation) in order to undertake longer-term
exploratory assessments of the clinical impact of allocation to screening.

           Data monitoring
The trial does not have a formal data monitoring committee, and no interim data
monitoring assessments are planned (to investigate either safety or efficacy).

Specific procedures for storing and handling data collected as part of the trial will be
described in a separate data management document.

           Trial reporting
The trial will be reported according to the principles of the CONSORT statement.3 It is
anticipated that the study will produce one publication describing the study rationale,
design, and baseline characteristics of recruited participants, one publication focused on
analyses of the primary and secondary outcomes at 2.5 years after randomisation, and a
subsequent publication with results from the secondary outcomes assessed at 5 years
after randomisation. However, further publications may be produced.


4          Analysis populations
        Population definitions
Unless otherwise specified, all comparative analyses between study arms will use the
intention-to-treat principle – i.e. including all randomised participants, regardless of
whether they subsequently adhered to the randomised allocation.

        Length of follow-up
4.2.1      Primary care records
Length of follow-up in the primary care records will be calculated as time from
randomisation to the earliest of:

       death;
       withdrawal of consent (complete withdrawal of consent, or withdrawal of
        permission for GP to share information about important illnesses);
       loss to follow-up in primary care records, defined for each participant as the date
        of a known change of GP practice to a practice not taking part in AMALFI (identified
        from either direct reporting to the study team, or GP practice codes assigned to
        dispensing records in the nationwide dispensing dataset); or
       study day 913 or study day 1826 (where day of randomisation is study day 0) –
        i.e. after 2.5 or 5 years have elapsed – according to the timeframe specified for
        assessment of each outcome.




AMALFI Statistical Analysis Plan v1.2 2025_06_26                                         12
4.2.2      National datasets
Length of follow-up in the national datasets (section 3.10.3) will be calculated as time from
randomisation to the earliest of:

       death;
       withdrawal of consent (complete withdrawal of consent, or withdrawal of
        permission for NHS England) to share information about important illnesses);
       study day 913 or study day 1826 (where day of randomisation is study day 0) –
        i.e. after 2.5 or 5 years have elapsed.

        Censoring
4.3.1      Left-censoring (pre-randomisation records)
4.3.1.1 Primary and secondary outcomes
In the event that AF diagnoses occurring pre-randomisation are identified, such diagnoses
will not count towards the primary or secondary outcomes, but their numbers will be
reported. For the avoidance of doubt, individuals for whom a pre-randomisation AF
diagnosis is identified will be included in the intention-to-treat analysis, in the study arm
they were allocated to. These individuals, who had AF first recorded before randomisation,
will only be counted as having an AF endpoint event if they also have a subsequent record
of AF post-randomisation. Pre-randomisation records will be discarded as it is considered
that at least some of these could have been wrongly entered into the primary care records
or entered retrospectively, otherwise these patients would not have been identified as
potentially eligible following the electronic eligibility search performed.

4.3.1.2 Outcomes of oral anticoagulation exposure
As the nationwide dataset on medication dispensing only provides the calendar month
and year in which a dispensing record occurred, with no exact dates, it is not possible to
discern whether anticoagulation during the month of randomisation is prior to or post
randomisation. Therefore, for any outcomes assessing post-randomisation exposure to
oral anticoagulation, only records occurring in the months after the month of
randomisation will contribute. Records of medication use prior to or during the month of
randomisation will be counted as medication prior to randomisation.

4.3.2      Right-censoring (post-randomisation records)
4.3.2.1 Primary outcome and subgroup analyses of the primary outcome
No censoring will be applied when assessing the primary outcome (the presence of a
record of AF, as recorded in primary care data, occurring between randomisation and 2.5
years after randomisation) or subgroup analyses of the primary outcome. Further details
on the planned hypothesis testing approach for these outcomes are included in Section
6.1.




AMALFI Statistical Analysis Plan v1.2 2025_06_26                                          13
4.3.2.2 Secondary outcomes of time spent with AF diagnosis at 5 years
For the secondary outcome of time spent with a known AF diagnosis within a period of 5
years after randomisation, and its corresponding subgroup analyses, right-censoring will
be applied at the earliest of death, study withdrawal, or on study day 1826.

For the avoidance of doubt, while information on fact and timing AF diagnoses will only
be captured from primary care records, the analysis of time spent with (i.e. after) a known
AF diagnosis spans from the date of diagnosis to date of death. Therefore, while the length
of follow-up is defined by the length of primary care data collection, the relevant right-
censoring time point is the earliest of date of death, withdrawal, or on study day 1826.

Additionally, a data imputation procedure will be specified at a later stage to handle loss
to follow-up in primary care records in participants without a known diagnosis of AF by
the time of loss to follow-up.

4.3.2.3 Outcomes of oral anticoagulation exposure
For any outcomes assessing exposure to oral anticoagulation, right-censoring will be
applied at the earliest of calendar month of death, withdrawal, or the 30th calendar month
(for 2.5 year analyses) or 60th calendar month (for 5 year analyses) post-randomisation.




5          Descriptive analyses
        Participant throughput
The flow of participants through the trial will be summarised using a CONSORT diagram.
The flow diagram will describe the numbers of participants invited, randomly allocated,
adherence to patch, withdrawals of consent, and losses to follow-up (e.g. moved GP,
death during follow-up).

           Baseline characteristics of randomised arms
The following characteristics, derived from self-reported medical history on the
randomisation form and the electronic records, will be described separately for
participants in each arm, at randomisation:

       Age (mean age, and grouped by <75, 75 to 79 and ≥80 years at randomisation)
       Sex
       Ethnicity (split into White, Black, Asian, Mixed/Other, and missing)
       Body mass index (mean and grouped by <25, 25 to <30, ≥30 kg/m2, and missing)
       CHA2DS2VASc score (median and grouped as score 3, 4, or 5 or more)
       CHA2DS2VASc components
       Chronic kidney disease (stage 3 or higher vs no CKD)
       Use of oral anticoagulation (prior to or in the month of randomisation)
       Use of other relevant treatments (prior to or in the month of randomisation):
           o Statins



AMALFI Statistical Analysis Plan v1.2 2025_06_26                                        14
            o   Aspirin or dipyridamole
            o   P2Y12 inhibition
            o   RAAS inhibition
            o   Beta-blockers
            o   Diuretics
            o   Calcium-channel blockers (diltiazem, verapamil, dihydropyridines)
            o   Insulin
            o   Proton-pump inhibitors or H2-antagonists

The number and percentage will be presented for binary and categorical variables. The
mean and standard deviation or the median and the interquartile range will be presented
for continuous variables, as appropriate. Counts of participants with missing data for each
parameter will also be presented, with missing data defined as unavailability in the linked
healthcare systems data required to ascertain each parameter (e.g. primary care data for
body mass index; medication dispensing data for medications; both primary data and HES
data for ethnicity). A shell table is provided below:




AMALFI Statistical Analysis Plan v1.2 2025_06_26                                        15
                                                                           Study allocation
                                                        Overall,       Patch,          Control,
Characteristic
                                                       N = 5,040      N = 2,520       N = 2,520
Age, mean (SD)
 - <75
 - 75-79
 - ≥80
Female sex
Ethnicity
 - White
 - Black
 - Asian
 - Mixed/Other
 - Missing
Body mass index (BMI), mean (SD)
 - <25 kg/m2
 - 25 to <30 kg/m2
 - ≥30 kg/m2
 - Missing
CHA2DS2VAsc score, median (IQR)
 - 3
 - 4
 - ≥5
Heart failure
Hypertension
Diabetes
Stroke or TIA
Thromboembolism
Myocardial infarction
Peripheral arterial disease
Chronic kidney disease (stage ≥3)
Medication exposure prior to randomisation
 - Oral anticoagulation
 - Statin
 - Aspirin or dipyridamole
 - P2Y12 inhibition
 - RAAS inhibition
 - Beta-blockers
 - Diuretics
 - Calcium-channel blockers
 - Insulin
 - Proton-pump inhibitors or H2-antagonists
    Number of participants with no available primary care data: n= XX
    Number of participants with no available nationwide dispensing data: n=XX


            Completeness and length of follow-up
    All reasonable efforts will be taken to minimise loss to follow-up. While data collection is
    entirely electronic, efforts undertaken to minimise loss to follow-up (in primary care


    AMALFI Statistical Analysis Plan v1.2 2025_06_26                                         16
records) include close communication with GP practices to ensure data are extracted and
transferred in a timely manner, troubleshooting issues with data extraction and transfers,
and cross-checking numbers of participants with data received from each practice with
those expected based on recruitment records (and investigating and correcting any
discrepancies). Losses to follow-up are therefore expected to be few given the use of
remote data collection procedures and a combination of data from local primary care
records and a wealth of nationwide datasets.

The number and percentage of participants with follow-up information to day 913 (2.5
years) and day 1,826 (5 years) will be reported for each relevant comparison, as well as
the average length of follow-up time available (as further described in Section 4.2). These
will be reported separately for primary care data (to be used for the primary and secondary
outcomes) and nationwide dispensing data (to be used for exploratory outcomes of oral
anticoagulation exposure).

        Adherence to the study intervention
The number and proportions of participants allocated to the active (screening) arm who
wore a patch and for whom any length of patch monitoring data is available will be
reported, and taken to represent overall adherence to the study intervention. The median
time spent wearing a patch and the median proportion of patch data suitable for analysis
will also be reported, as well as the median time between randomisation and the date the
patch was activated (for those who wore it). Additionally, baseline characteristics of
participants in the active arm will be reported separately for those who wore vs those who
did not wear a patch. Reasons for non-adherence to patch will also be reported.

        Cardiac monitoring findings in the active arm
Heart rhythm findings detected by the ECG patch will be reported for participants in the
active arm of the study who wore a patch. These will include:

       Rate of new AF detection via patch during the monitoring period (number and
        proportion)
       Characteristics of AF detected via patch
           o Burden (i.e. proportion of time spent in AF during the monitoring period)
           o Longest AF episode duration (in hours)
           o Maximum heart rate during AF episodes
           o Minimum heart rate during AF episodes
           o Time to first AF episode during the monitoring period (in days)
       Frequency of other arrhythmias found through monitoring (e.g. atrial flutter,
        supraventricular tachycardias, non-sustained and sustained ventricular
        tachycardias, atrioventricular block of different degrees)

Additionally, for participants with AF detected via patch, the time between patch reporting
date and the date of the first AF record in primary care records will also be reported.




AMALFI Statistical Analysis Plan v1.2 2025_06_26                                        17
6          Comparative analyses
        Primary outcome
The chi-square test will be used to compare the proportion of participants with a record
of AF in primary care data within a period of 2.5 years after randomisation in all those
randomised to screening versus all those randomised to usual care. Proportions in each
arm will be presented, along with the ratio of proportions and the associated 95%
confidence interval.

Individuals who had AF recorded before randomisation will only be counted as having an
AF endpoint event if they also have a subsequent record of AF post-randomisation.
Individuals with no record of AF during this time frame who died, were withdrawn, or lost
to follow-up from the primary care records before 2.5 years from randomisation will be
counted as having no record of AF.

        Secondary outcomes
The chi-square test will be used to compare the proportion of participants with AF
recorded within a period of 2.5 years after randomisation in those randomised to screening
versus those randomised to usual care, separately by age subgroups of <80 and ≥80 years
and, separately, by sex subgroups at randomisation, with a test for heterogeneity of the
results between the two subgroups.

As the characteristics of the distributions of mean time spent with a known AF diagnosis
cannot be predicted beforehand, choice of a parametric statistical hypothesis test a priori
could be inappropriate. Therefore, a permutation test4 will be used to compare the mean
duration of time with AF diagnosed at 5 years after randomisation in all those randomised
to screening compared to all those randomised to usual care (in the overall cohort and,
separately, by age and by sex subgroups, as above). Duration of time with AF diagnosed
will be defined as days from date of the first post-randomisation AF record in the primary
care data to 5 years after randomisation (or date of death or withdrawal if this is earlier).
Those with no diagnosis of AF by the end of the study will contribute zero time with AF.
Details on a procedure to handle participants who withdrew or were lost to follow-up with
no record of AF before 5 years will be specified at a later stage (but before any unblinded
data analyses are undertaken). The empirical p value for the difference will be calculated
as (1+s)/(n+1) where s = the number of simulations where the difference in mean time with
a known AF diagnosis is at least the observed difference and n=total number of
simulations.

        Sensitivity analyses
Sensitivity analyses of the primary and secondary outcomes will be performed using AF
diagnoses captured in either primary care records or secondary care records (i.e. from
Hospital Episode Statistics datasets) – i.e. an AF diagnosis will be counted regardless of
where it was recorded in primary care or secondary care records.




AMALFI Statistical Analysis Plan v1.2 2025_06_26                                          18
        Exploratory outcomes
6.4.1  Time to AF detection within a period of 2.5 and 5 years after
randomisation
Cumulative incidence curves for AF detection up to 2.5 years and 5 years after
randomisation will also be presented, and the difference between randomised arms will
be assessed as an exploratory outcome. Time to AF detection will be defined as the time
from randomisation to first post randomisation primary care record of AF, censoring at the
earliest of date of death, withdrawal, loss to follow-up in the primary care records, or day
913 (2.5-year analysis) / day 1826 (5-year analysis). Statistical hypothesis testing will be
performed using the log-rank test. The median time to first AF record after randomisation
in primary records (i.e. from randomisation to first post-randomisation record) will also be
presented for each arm for people who have a diagnosis of AF.

6.4.2    Time spent with a known diagnosis of AF within a period of 2.5 years
after randomisation
The outcome of time spent with a known diagnosis of AF within a period of 2.5 years after
randomisation (i.e. replicating the secondary outcome of time spent with a known
diagnosis of AF within a period of 5 years after randomisation, but within a shorter period)
will be assessed as an exploratory outcome alongside analyses of the primary outcome
(proportion of participants with a post-randomisation record of AF at 2.5 years after
randomisation). The hypothesis testing framework and procedures for this exploratory
outcome will follow those outlined for the secondary outcome of time spent with a known
diagnosis of AF within a period of 5 years after randomisation (as specified in section 6.2).

6.4.3      Rates of oral anticoagulation use
To explore the impact of AF screening on post-randomisation oral anticoagulation use
(including direct oral anticoagulants and vitamin K antagonists, but excluding rivaroxaban
2.5mg twice daily1), the following exploratory outcomes will be assessed:

    1. Total number of participants with a post-randomisation record (presented using
       counts and proportions in each randomised arm, and tested using a chi-square
       test). Median time to first post-randomisation record (in calendar months) will also
       be presented for people with oral anticoagulation recorded, separately for each
       randomised arm.
    2. Total quantitative post-randomisation exposure, defined as total number of distinct
       calendar months with evidence of likely exposure to oral anticoagulation, as further
       described in a separate document (presented using means in each randomised
       arm, and tested using a permutation test).

All outcomes will be calculated in both study arms, up to 30 and 60 months after
randomisation (or month of death or withdrawal if earlier). These assessments will be

1
  Rivaroxaban 2.5mg BD is the dose used for cardiovascular risk reduction alongside
antiplatelet therapy in people with established cardiovascular disease, and not for clinical
anticoagulation purposes, hence excluded here


AMALFI Statistical Analysis Plan v1.2 2025_06_26                                          19
performed regardless of whether AF was recorded during the follow-up period (as any
impact of screening on clinical outcomes would depend on an increase in overall
anticoagulation exposure, not just anticoagulation for AF).

Cumulative incidence curves for months to first post-randomisation oral anticoagulant
record up to 30 and 60 months after randomisation will also be presented. These analyses
will also be censored at the month of death or withdrawal. Statistical hypothesis testing
will be performed using the log-rank test.

6.4.4      Long-term assessments of the clinical impact of screening
Although the trial is not powered to show a statistically significant difference in clinical
outcomes between study arms, numbers and proportions of the following events in each
arm will be reported in future analyses focused on long-term impacts of screening (with
no hypothesis testing performed):

       Hospitalisations (total and for cardiovascular causes)
       Ischaemic stroke
       Major bleeding
       All-cause and cardiovascular death

Details on the nature of such analyses and associated outcome identification will be
specified at a later stage.

        Non-randomised comparisons
6.5.1   Rates of oral anticoagulation between screen-detected and clinically-
detected AF (non-randomised assessment)
In order to explore the potential impact of AF detection modality (screen vs clinically-
detected) on clinical management, an exploratory, retrospective, non-randomised
comparison of rates of post-randomisation oral anticoagulation use will be performed
among the following non-randomised groups:

    1. AF detected on patch + AF recorded in post-randomisation primary care records
    2. AF recorded in post-randomisation primary care records only (amongst those
       randomised to either treatment arm)
    3. AF detected on patch + no post-randomisation primary care record of AF

Anticoagulation use will be defined as:

    -   For participants with AF detected in primary care records (groups 1 and 2):
        presence of an anticoagulation record after the month of the first post-
        randomisation AF primary care record;
    -   For participants with AF detected on patch but not on primary care records (group
        3): presence of an anticoagulation record after the month of reporting of an AF
        diagnosis to the GP.




AMALFI Statistical Analysis Plan v1.2 2025_06_26                                         20
For participants with AF detected on patch and AF recorded in post-randomisation
primary care records (group 1), the time interval between AF diagnosis reporting to the GP
and date of first post-randomisation AF record in primary care data will also be reported.
The date of AF diagnosis reporting to the GP will be considered as the date on which the
cardiac monitoring report was emailed directly to the GP by the study team, not the (later)
date on which the automated results letter was mailed to both the participant and their
GP (as described in Section 3.5).

        Non-pre-specified exploratory analyses
Additional analyses not specified in this statistical analysis plan may be performed if
deemed to be of scientific interest. These will be clearly identified as exploratory and non-
pre-specified, and due allowance will be made in their interpretation.

        Health economics
In addition to investigating the impact of screening on AF detection rates, the results from
AMALFI will also inform a broader cost-effectiveness analysis aimed at capturing
differences in healthcare resources (e.g. GP visits, medications, hospital visits), as well as
differences in health-related quality of life (based on the standard EQ-5D-5L
questionnaire), AF cases, and AF-related events in combination with data from external
cohorts. Details of these analyses will be described in a separate analysis plan.

        Power calculations
6.8.1      Power calculations for the primary outcome
The sample size for this study was initially specified as 2,500 but was later increased to
5,000. The underlying assumptions are as follows:

AF detection via usual care: A 2015 UK study on opportunistic AF screening during flu
vaccinations suggests the yearly rate of asymptomatic AF detection through usual care is
~0.7% among those who receive a pulse check (with approximately half those who had a
flu vaccination receiving a pulse check).5 Thus, if considering the entire population aged 65
years or more (of whom only some will have pulse checks), the rate of newly-detected AF
is expected to be half, at ~0.3-0.4%/year. As AMALFI participants will generally have a
higher cardiovascular risk than the general population, the yearly AF detection rate was
estimated to be ~0.7%/year. Over a 2.5 year period, the new AF detection rate via usual
care is expected to be 1.75% (0.7% x 2.5 years), based on a time dependent Poisson
process (a+bt) with a parameter b slightly increasing with time.

AF detection via screening: In STROKESTOP, screening with twice-daily, 30 second ECG
over 14 days in 75 year-olds detected new AF in 3.0%.6 It is expected that continuous
monitoring with the Zio XT during a similar period of time in AMALFI will result in higher
AF detection rates. However, patch screening will not detect all AF cases in the active arm,
due to non-compliance with the patch, false negatives, or AF episodes not occurring at the
time of screening; thus, additional AF cases will continue to be detected through usual care
in this arm. Taking into consideration a moderate level of non-adherence and false-
negatives (i.e. AF missed during the monitoring period by chance), it was estimated that


AMALFI Statistical Analysis Plan v1.2 2025_06_26                                           21
screening would lead to newly-detected AF in about 3.75% of individuals, with additional
new AF cases found via usual care throughout the duration of study. Over a 2.5-year
period, it is estimated that the total new AF detection rate in the active arm will be 4.4%.
This estimate takes the same Poisson process used in the usual care arm (with expected
annual AF incidence 0.7%) and assumes that 70% of AFs that would have been detected
in year 1 were found by patch, 60% year 2, and 50% year 3.

Sample size calculations: Based on these assumptions, an initial sample size of 2,500
individuals (1,250 in each arm) was set to provide >90% power to detect the expected
difference in proportions of newly-detected AF between arms at 2.5 years (1.75% versus
4.4%; ratio: approximately 2.5) at two-sided p (2p) <0.05.

Modifications to the sample size: AMALFI completed recruitment of the initial sample size
of 2,500 in mid-2021, without exhausting the available pool of interested GP practices or
the funding available for recruitment activities. Based on an interim analysis of baseline
characteristics and Zio XT AF detection rates in 1,250 randomised participants (but
blinded to total AF detection rates in both arms), the investigators decided to extend the
target study size to 5,000. This extension allowed:

1. Improved precision to detect the estimated 2.5-fold difference in AF proportions
between the two arms at 2.5 years (>90% power at 2p<0.01 vs 0.05);

2. Preserved power if the difference between arms were smaller than expected (i.e. >90%
power at 2p<0.01 for a 2-fold difference) – e.g. due to high AF detection rates through
usual care in the control arm;

3. Good power to analyse the primary outcome by subgroups for age (<80 and ≥80 years)
and, separately, sex at randomisation, with ~90% power at 2p<0.05 in both assessments;

4. Improved power to detect differences in health-related quality of life (health economics
analyses).

        Adjustment for baseline characteristics
No adjustment of the primary or secondary outcomes based on baseline characteristics is
planned a priori. Adjustments may be performed if significant imbalances between arms
(for the overall cohort or any of the pre-specified subgroup analyses) are later found.
However, it is expected that the minimisation randomisation algorithm employed (based
on age, sex, and self-reported residual CHA2DS2VASc score) will prevent or at least reduce
the possibility of such imbalances.

           Significance levels and adjustment of p-values for multiplicity
The statistical significance level will be set as a two-sided alpha<0.05. Formal statistical
adjustment for multiple hypothesis testing will not be made for the primary, secondary and
exploratory outcomes (including subgroup analyses). However, due allowance for multiple
testing will be made in the interpretation of the secondary and exploratory results: the
larger the number of events on which a comparison is based, and the more extreme the



AMALFI Statistical Analysis Plan v1.2 2025_06_26                                         22
