Source document ID: JAMA2025_9110_D04_RESULTS_SUPP
Source PDF: joi250040supp3_prod_1753124024.38098.pdf
Source PDF page: 8
Extraction method: native
Native extraction quality: acceptable with table-layout fragmentation
---
© 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and
similar technologies.
Primary outcome
• Number of days free of the index hospital and alive at day 90.
Calculated as 90 days minus all days admitted to the index hospital after commencement of trial
enteral formula minus any days readmitted to the index hospital within 90 days. As patients may be
readmitted for part of a day (e.g. for dialysis) a readmission was only be counted when the patient
remained in hospital at midnight. Patients were  considered alive if they  survive the index-hospital
episode, and there is no evidence of death before day 90. In Australia, death after hospital discharge
was ascertained from the local health record by site investigators and  using data linkage with the
Australian National Death Index. At the New Zealand site, the Australian New Zealand Intensive
Care Society Adult Patient Database (ANZICS APD)  i s linked to the New Zealand national death
registry to record death after hospital discharge . Patients who die during the 90-day post- trial
recruitment period, were assigned a days free of the index hospital value of zero.
Secondary outcomes
• Days free of the index hospital and alive at day 90 in survivors.
Calculated only for those that survived to day 90. Calculated the same as the primary outcome, i.e.,
90 days minus all days admitted to the index hospital after commencement of trial enteral formula
minus any days readmitted to the index hospital within 90 days. As patients may be readmitted for
part of a day (e.g., for dialysis) a readmission was only be counted when the patient remained  in
hospital at midnight. Patients who remained in hospital until day 90 were assigned a value of zero.
• Alive at day 90.
Patients were considered alive if they were alive at discharge from the index hospital, and there was
no evidence of death before day 90. Local h ealth service records were used to provide evidence of
patient status, including if the patient was discharged alive from hospital but known to have a post
discharge health event. Health events include rehabilitation facility admission, outpatient appointment
attended, pathology test completed, other medical investigation, or day admission e .g. dialysis,
chemotherapy. Binary outcome (yes/no).
• Duration of invasive ventilation (hours). Total hours of invasive ventilation for patients receiving
invasive ventilation in ICU.
 A continuous outcome restricted to be non-negative.
• Duration of admission to ICU (days). Time -to-ICU discharge with death in ICU considered as a
competing risk.
• Duration of admission to hospital (days). Time-to-hospital discharge with death in hospital considered
as a competing risk.
• Incidence of tracheostomy insertion
• Incidence of new kidney replacement therapy commenced during index ICU admission, subsequent
to commencement of trial enteral nutrition
• Hospital discharge destination – Home, other hospital ICU, other acute hospital, rehabilitation, long
term care, and other
ICU = Intensive Care Unit
