S
erumlevelsof25-hydroxyvitaminD(25[OH]D),aprecur-
sorofactivatedvitaminD,increaseinresponsetoexposure
tosunlight,avitaminD–richdiet,orvitaminDsupplemen-
tation.Cancercellsarebelievedtotakeupandactivate25(OH)D
withinthecell,whichbindstothevitaminDreceptortoregulate
geneexpressionandconsequentlysuppressescancergrowth.1,2
In 1989, the risk of colon cancer was estimated to be 70%
lowerinpeoplewithserum25(OH)Dlevelsof20ng/mLormore
compared with those with levels less than 20 ng/mL.3 In a co-
hort study, higher 25(OH)D levels were associated with lower
total cancer incidence and lower total cancer mortality, par-
ticularly digestive system cancer mortality.4 Similar results
have been found in colorectal cancer.5-7
However,2randomizedclinicaltrials(RCTs)usingvitaminD
and calcium to prevent cancer incidence generated conflicting
conclusions:oneconcludedthatsupplementationwithcalcium
andvitaminD(400IU/d)for7yearshadnoeffectontheincidence
ofcolorectalcancerinpostmenopausalwomen,8whereasanother
demonstratedthatcancerincidencewaslowerinpostmenopausal
women taking calcium plus vitamin D (1100 IU/d) than in those
taking placebo.9 However, these RCTs focused on primary pre-
ventionforparticipantswithoutcancer;toourknowledge,noRCT
ofsecondarypreventionforrelapseordeathhasbeenconducted.
Single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of the vitamin D
receptor have been associated with the prognosis of patients
with cancer.10-12 In addition, SNPs of vitamin D binding pro-
tein have been associated with 25(OH)D levels.13,14 Therefore,
a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial was con-
ducted to assess whether vitamin D3 supplementation can im-
prove survival of patients with digestive tract cancers from the
esophagus to the rectum after surgical resection. Subgroup
analyses were also done based on serum 25(OH)D cutoff levels
of 20 and 40 ng/mL as well as the presence of relevant SNPs.
Methods
Trial Design
Thiswasadouble-blind,placebo-controlledtrialtocomparethe
effectsofvitaminD3supplementation,2000IU/d,orplaceboat
anallocationratioof3:2.PatientsattheInternationalUniversity
of Health and Welfare Hospital (Ohtawara, Tochigi prefecture,
Japan) surgically treated for digestive tract cancer between the
esophagusandtherectumareusuallydischarged5to14daysaf-
tertheoperationandvisittheoutpatientclinic1to2weekslater
iftherearenomajorcomplications.Therefore,inthisstudy,pa-
tientswhodidnotmeetexclusioncriteriawererandomizedand
startedsupplementationatthefirstoutpatientvisitbetween2and
4 weeks after operation. The trial protocol was approved by the
ethics committee of the International University of Health and
Welfare Hospital. Written informed consent was obtained from
eachpatientwhodecidedtoparticipatebeforesurgery.Therewas
noexternaldataandsafetymonitoringcommitteeforthisstudy.
The full protocol for this trial is available in Supplement 1.
Participants
The inclusion criteria included a histopathological diagnosis
of epithelial carcinoma of the digestive tract (esophagus, stom-
ach, small intestine, colon, and rectum), clinical stages I to III;
aged 30 to 90 years at entry; diagnosis and initial surgery at
the International University of Health and Welfare Hospital;
not taking vitamin D supplements or active vitamin D; and no
history of urinary tract stones. The exclusion criteria com-
prisedtumorsthatwerenotresectablebysurgery,seriouspost-
operative complications before starting supplementation,
pathological diagnosis other than epithelial carcinoma (such
as malignant lymphoma and sarcoma), and pathological stage
0 or IV. Collaborating surgeons preoperatively described the
trial to eligible patients and their families at outpatient clin-
ics and asked them to participate in the trial. All clinical data
were collected at the International University of Health and
Welfare Hospital and monitored at the Division of Molecular
Epidemiology, Jikei University School of Medicine.
Randomization and Blinding
Computer-generated and centrally administered randomiza-
tion used permuted blocks of 5. Participants were random-
ized in a 3:2 ratio without stratification. Increasing the likeli-
hood of randomization to the vitamin D group was done in an
effort to increase willingness to participate. With the excep-
tion of M.U. and the staff of the data monitoring center at the
Jikei University School of Medicine, who prepared the bottles
of vitamin D or placebo according to randomization assign-
ments, all other surgeons, the clinical research coordinator,
and participants at the International University of Health and
Welfare Hospital were blinded to group assignment.
Intervention
At the first outpatient visit after surgery, enrolled patients were
randomlyassignedtoreceiveeithervitaminD3supplementation,
2000IU/d,orplacebo,andwereaskedtotakethestudymedica-
tion from that day until the end of the trial. Both study medica-
tions were purchased from Zenyaku Pharmaceutical Co Ltd,
Tokyo, Japan.
Outcomes
The primary outcome was relapse-free survival, defined as
elapsedtimefromthedateofrandomization(ie,timefromstart-
ingthestudymedicationtotheearliestdateofcancerrelapseor
death due to any cause). Secondary outcomes comprised over-
all survival, defined as elapsed time from the date of random-
ization (ie, time from starting the study medication to the date
ofdeathduetoanycause),aswellasincidenceofrelapse,cancer-
specificdeath,andnoncancerdeath.Safetyoutcomescomprised
Key Points
Question Does vitamin D supplementation improve survival
among patients with digestive tract cancers?
Findings In this randomized clinical trial that included 417 patients
with digestive tract cancers (from esophagus to rectum), the
5-year relapse-free survival rate for those randomized to
vitamin D, 2000 IU/d, vs placebo was 77% vs 69%, a difference
that was not statistically significant.
Meaning Vitamin D supplementation did not improve
relapse-free survival among patients with digestive tract cancer.
Research Original Investigation
Effect of Vitamin D Supplementation on Relapse-Free Survival in Patients With Digestive Tract Cancers
1362
JAMA
April 9, 2019
Volume 321, Number 14
(Reprinted)
jama.com
© 2019 American Medical Association. All rights reserved.
Downloaded from jamanetwork.com by University of Arizona Health Sciences Library user on 07/30/2026
