CI = confidence interval; d = day; MD = mean difference; NEC = necrotizing enterocolitis; PDA = patent ductus
arteriosus; PMA = postmenstrual age; PNA = postnatal age; Q1 = first quartile (25 th percentile); Q3 = third quartile (75 th
percentile); ROP = retinopathy of prematurity; RR = risk difference; w = week.
The safety population includes infants who received at least one dose of study intervention, and treatment group is
reported as treatment received. Infants who were randomized but not treated are excluded from this analysis population.
n/N (%) reported for each outcome is the number of participants experiencing the outcome over the number of participants
with a nonmissing value for the outcome.
Binary outcomes report relative risks, estimated by robust Poisson regression, unless otherwise noted. Continuous
outcomes report least squares mean difference estimated by robust generalized linear models (normal distribution with
identity link). Both model types compared the Budesonide + Surfactant group to the Surfactant Alone group, adjusting for
gestational age strata and pooled center. All analyses were performed at the alpha = 0.05 significance level for descriptive
purposes only.
a Clinical outcomes are assessed through Generic Database status (120 days postnatal age and in hospital, or prior death,

transfer, or discharge to home). NEC, PDA, and ROP outcomes are not available for infants who died within 12 hours
postnatal age. Death composites for clinical outcomes consider in-hospital deaths by 120d PNA.
b Relative risk was approximated by the crude (unadjusted) odds ratio with exact 95% confidence intervals due to low

event prevalence.
e Growth outcomes are collected at 36 weeks PMA and are not available for infants who reach Generic Database status

prior to 35 weeks PMA. Growth measurements were standardized to the Olsen et al. (2010) growth curves for United
States data. Death composites for growth outcomes consider in-hospital deaths by 36w PMA.




© 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data
mining, AI training, and similar technologies.
