Antihypertensive Medication Timing and Cardiovascular Events and Death

hypertension. A social media campaign augmented recruitment (see video at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=
uhuyxErXkYY), and some participants heard about the trial
through word of mouth or media reporting (for recruitment
breakdown, see eTable 1 in Supplement 3).

Intervention
Participants were centrally randomized 1:1 to taking all oncedaily antihypertensives at bedtime, vs morning, using permuted blocks (random block sizes of 10 or 12, stratified by province of residence). Allocation was received directly from a
research assistant with no preceding clinical interactions, ensuring irreversible and concealed allocation.
Either primary care clinicians or research assistants (participant’s choice) talked participants through timing changes,
with research assistants recommending 1 timing change per
week until all once-daily antihypertensives were per allocation. The bedtime group took BP medication when readying
for bed; the morning group took BP medication on arising.
If participants proved intolerant of bedtime use, dinnertime
use was encouraged, rather than reverting back to morning
use. Similarly, for participants intolerant of morning use,
lunchtime use was requested. Follow-up telephone interviews at 1 week, 6 weeks, 6 months, and every 6 months
encouraged and assessed adherence to allocation time.
Excepting the 18-month Short Blessed Test (an assessment of cognitive function),28-30 participants could instead
opt for 6-monthly email surveys (for follow-up breakdown, see eTable 2 in Supplement 3). If participants reported
a new glaucoma diagnosis, morning antihypertensive use
was advised, regardless of allocation (n = 43 in the bedtime
group).

Outcomes
Primary Outcome
The primary outcome was time to occurrence of a composite
of death and major cardiovascular events, defined as first
occurrence of either all-cause death or a hospitalization/
emergency department visit for acute coronary syndrome,
stroke, or heart failure. All-cause mortality was chosen over
cardiovascular mortality given difficulty in clearly distinguishing cardiovascular and noncardiovascular death and
given that MAPEC and Hygia both reported large reductions
in all-cause death.
Secondary Outcomes
Secondary outcomes were cognitive decline at 18 months
(≥2-point worsening from baseline on the Short Blessed Test)
and time to occurrence of (1) each primary outcome component, (2) all-cause unplanned hospitalization/emergency department visit, (3) nursing home admission, (4) nonvertebral
fracture, and (5) new glaucoma diagnosis.
Other safety outcomes included self-reported worsening
of vision (“much worse” than last follow-up at any point or
“slightly worse” than last follow-up on ≥2 occasions), new
impairment consistent with dementia (18-month Short
Blessed Test score newly ≥10 or new dementia diagnosis in
administrative health data), self-reported light-headedness
jama.com

Original Investigation Research

(prior month), self-reported fainting (prior month), selfreported falling (prior month), time to hip fracture, and nocturia (already reported 24 ). We also examined 12-month
EuroQol 5-Level 5-Dimension (EQ-5D-5L) overall health
scores. Some secondary outcomes were altered from their
initial protocol/trial registry descriptions. This occurred
while investigators were fully blinded to all outcomes (see
rationale in eAppendix Section 5 in Supplement 3).
Finally, adherence to allocation time was self-reported and
measured at the medication level. It reflects the stated time
medications were ingested, not an assessment of missed/
forgotten doses. Participants could be adherent for one antihypertensive and not adherent for another.
Outcomes were collected in duplicate, via both selfreport and linked administrative health data available for
92.6% of participants (International Classification of Diseases, Ninth Revision/International Statistical Classification
of Diseases and Related Health Problems, Tenth Revision
codes) (eAppendix Section 2 in Supplement 3). Of the 7.4%
without administrative data, 90.3% resided in Ontario or
Saskatchewan, whose privacy laws prevented patient-level
data crossing provincial borders. A blinded 3-physician adjudication committee reviewed outcomes from both sources
and requested information from primary care clinicians
when data were discordant (eg, differing diagnoses or reporting from only 1 data source). Adjudication rules and proportions of outcomes disallowed are provided in eAppendix
Section 3 in Supplement 3.

Sample Size
BedMed was designed to be event driven and to detect or exclude a 25% reduction (hazard ratio ≤0.75) in the primary outcome with a probability (power) of 0.8. For a time-to-event survival analysis with 1:1 allocation and type I error probability
of .05, this required 379 events. We increased this by 7% to a
target of 406 primary outcome events to account for withdrawals and loss to follow-up, projected to be 5%. We powered for differences we believed feasible to detect, not for a
minimum clinically important difference, given that even small
differences in death and major cardiovascular events are likely
important to patients.

Interim Analysis
A 5-member independent data and safety monitoring board
reviewed the only interim analysis on May 18, 2022 (n = 155
primary outcomes; all outcomes analyzed). They met again on
October 28, 2022, to discuss the newly published TIME trial12
and whether the TIME findings would change their previous
recommendation. The committee was directed to consider a
recommendation for early stopping if P ≤ .001 in support of a
primary outcome benefit or if P ≤ .05 in the direction of harm
for any outcome. Recommendations to continue the trial were
made on each occasion.
Investigators were fully blinded to all but aggregated data
throughout the trial, excepting adherence to allocation and
24-hour ambulatory BP, knowledge of which helped ensure adequate implementation of the timing intervention. The trial
stopped early solely due to funding constraints.
(Reprinted) JAMA June 17, 2025 Volume 333, Number 23

2063

© 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.

Downloaded from jamanetwork.com by University of Arizona Health Sciences Library user on 07/23/2026

