Source document ID: JAMA2025_9110_D04_RESULTS_SUPP
Source PDF: joi250040supp3_prod_1753124024.38098.pdf
Source PDF page: 3
Extraction method: native (OCR retained as visual aid where applicable)
Native extraction quality: acceptable
---
© 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and
similar technologies.

SUPPLEMENT 3
 eMethods
Consent model
The trial was conducted using a hybrid model of consent: 1) enrollment using a full waiver of consent at Australian
sites; and 2) enrollment with a waiver of consent to commence the intervention using a treating clinician “best interest
statement” with relative/Whanau/friend consultation, when possible, with consen t to continue participation obtained
from the patient or their medical treatment decision maker at the New Zealand site. When patients or their medical
treatment decision maker opted out or refused consent to continue participation, permission was requested to retain data
already collected.

Enteral formula product information
Nutrison Protein Plus: https://nutricia.com.au/adult/product/nutrison-protein-plus/
Nutrison Protein Intense: https://nutricia.com.au/adult/product/nutrison-protein-intense/

Ideal body weight calculation
While enteral nutrition delivery rates were conducted as per usual site practice, s tudy sites received  education on
calculating ideal body weight for overweight and obese patients when prescribing nutrition and were recommended to
prescribe no more than a maximum of 1ml per kg of ideal body weight per hour. Ideal body weight was calculated from
patient height per site current practice.

Calculation of duration of trial enteral formula
Nutrition intake data was collected on days 1-5, day 10, day 20, day 30 and day 90. Date and time of the commencement
of trial enteral formula and the date and time of trial enteral formula cessation for the last time in the index ICU admission
were recorded. Readmissions to ICU during the index hospital admission up to 90 days post commencement of trial
enteral nutrition were recorded. If the trial enteral nutrition was re-commenced during the readmission to ICU, the date
and time of the re-commencement of trial enteral nutrition and the date and time of trial enteral nutrition cessation for
the last time in the ICU re-admission were recorded. Duration of trial enteral nutrition was calculated in hours from the
time of commencement of the trial enteral nutrition until cessation of the last episode of trial enteral nutrition. Duration
of trial enteral nutrition was calculated in hours to accurately represent the duration of feeding because there are at least
two partial days (day of commencement of trial enteral nutrition  and day of ceasing trial enteral nutrition ) of feeding
and presenting as feeding days would inflate the estimate of trial enteral nutrition delivered.
