       Site and provider attributes will be described by using means and standard deviations for
   continuous variables and counts and percentages for categorical variables. Site
   characteristics will include pediatric vs. mixed adult and pediatric, number of pediatric cancer
   patients diagnosed annually, and percentage of patients anticipated to have private, public
   or no insurance. Healthcare provider characteristics will include number of physician and
   nurse practitioner full-time equivalents and median years in practice. CFIR attributes will
   also be described.
       The dependence of the number of SSPedi completed by a participant on participant,
   guardian and site characteristics will be assessed using a mixed effects Poisson or negative
   binomial regression model, with a random effect for site. Participant characteristics will
   include sex, age/age group, race, ethnicity, preferred language, and cancer diagnosis group.
   Guardian characteristics will include marital status, guardian employment and highest
   education, and high annual household income. Site characteristics will be those included
   above. The dependence of the odds of being a high responder on these same
   characteristics will be assessed using mixed effects logistic regression adjusting for
   stratification factors.
       The number of recorded clicks is available on aggregate for each site, so we will
   summarize this as a set of 10 rates, clicks per enrolled participant, and assess whether
   there is site-to-site variability by fitting a random effects Poisson or negative binomial model
   with clicks as the outcome and the logarithm of the number of patients as an offset. A
   summary rate will be estimated from this model and the median rate ratio (analogous to the
   MOR above) will be calculated.
4. Implementation will calculate the percentage of patients who enrolled but came off protocol
   therapy early (intervention only) or off study early (all participants), overall and stratified by
   intervention or control group. Counts and percentages will be shown, with no inferential
   statistics.

Missing Data: The PedsQL will be scored according to its scoring guide, which includes rules
for scoring in the presence of missing elements on each domain modules. No other
deterministic rule-based method will be used to deal with missing data.
        If more than 10% of participants are missing the primary outcome or secondary patient-
reported outcomes, the analysis will use multiple imputation based on previous SSPedi
assessments (weeks 0 and 4), group and site. In addition, we will conduct sensitivity analysis
assuming that missing scores are from children with high total SSPedi scores and from children
with low total SSPedi scores (randomly drawn from the highest and lowest quartile). A set of 20
complete datasets will be generated using separate within-treatment-group imputation models.
These models will include all the study outcomes listed just above, and the key covariates that
appear in our adjusted models (age, diagnosis group and stratification factors). The models will
be fitted in each imputed dataset and the pooled estimate of the treatment effect and its
standard error will be computed using Rubin’s rules.
        Analyses of documentation and interventions will not use any imputation. There can be
no missing data for these outcomes: if a symptom is not documented in the health record and
there is no record of an intervention being used, then this constitutes a ‘no’ for the outcome.
While it is possible that the SSPedi symptom score needed for the identification of the analytic
datasets in analyses (4b, 4c, 5b, and 5c) is missing for some participants, the more exploratory
nature of these analyses led us to the decision to use only observed data for these outcomes.

FEASIBILITY AND POTENTIAL BENEFITS/RISKS

Feasibility and Recruitment Rate
   Among the 20 sites that have agreed to participate, there are expected to be 60 patients/




                                                                                       Page 12 of 17
