Version Date: November 21, 2023


               came off study early, both overall and stratified by intervention or control group.


Descriptive Statistics
Baseline characteristics: Summary statistics on baseline characteristics will be calculated within
each study arm and presented in a table – means and standard deviations (SDs) for variables
treated as continuous, counts and percentages for categorical variables, along with total
numbers with missing data.
Outcomes: Similar tables will be created for all study outcomes. Individual SSPedi symptom
scores will be summarized by the percentages of participants with scores of 3 or 4, the two
most bothersome categories.

Comparative Analyses
Primary Outcome
     The primary analysis will use the patient-level 8-week total SSPedi score as the outcome in
a mixed linear regression model with a random effect for cluster, fixed effects for treatment
assignment, child age and diagnosis group (leukemia/lymphoma, solid tumor and central
nervous system tumor), and two binary fixed effects at the cluster level for stratification
variables (above or below the average anticipated yearly number of English or Spanish-speaking
cancer patients 8-18 years of age, and above or below the average anticipated percentage of
patients with private insurance vs. other payment types). Child age and diagnosis group will be
included as they are known to be associated with total SSPedi scores; this will reduce residual
variance in scores. We do not plan to adjust the model for baseline SSPedi score because some
of the care pathway interventions (that are prophylactic) will affect symptoms prior to
enrollment and the baseline score may already reflect some benefit of the cluster’s treatment
assignment. The treatment effect will be the covariate-adjusted mean difference between
study groups in 8-week SSPedi, presented with a 95% CI and a two-sided p-value for a test of no
treatment effect. If we find the residuals from the mixed model fitted to the 8-week total
SSPedi score deviate substantially from normality, we will conduct sensitivity analyses, one
using normalizing transformations of the outcome and another using an ordinal regression
model.
     To account for potential differential enrollment of surgery only patients (who might not be
cared for by oncology teams) between intervention vs. control sites, we will also conduct a
sensitivity analysis restricted to patients that received systemic chemotherapy.

Secondary Outcomes
   1. Self-reported individual symptoms at weeks 4 and 8 on the SSPedi instrument: For
      each of the 15 ordinal outcomes representing symptoms (scored 0-4), a mixed effects
      proportional odds model will be fitted using treatment assignment and stratification
      factors as fixed effects covariates and with a random effect for site. As some individual
      symptoms may be uncommon, to avoid specifying models that may be overfitted for
      those symptoms, these models will use only this minimal set of three covariates. The
      estimated odds ratio for the intervention (representing the odds of having a higher vs.
      lower score in the intervention group) will be estimated and presented along with a 95%

                                                                                                 5
