Symptom Screening Linked to Care Pathways for Children with Cancer: a Cluster Randomized Trial
Study Protocol

prophylactic) will affect symptoms prior to enrollment and this baseline score may already reflect some benefit
of the cluster’s treatment assignment. All attempts to avoid missing data will be made and, given the short
duration of this study, we anticipate a low dropout rate by week 8. However, if more than 10% of participants
are missing the primary outcome, the primary analysis will use multiple imputation based on previous SSPedi
assessments (weeks 0 and 4), group and site. In addition, we will conduct sensitivity analysis assuming that
missing scores are from children with high total SSPedi scores and from children with low total SSPedi scores
(randomly drawn from the highest and lowest quartile).
     The secondary endpoints of self-reported fatigue and QoL will be compared between randomized groups
using the methods for the primary analysis (with inclusion of child age in the model). Presence of documented
severely bothersome symptoms (SSPedi score of 3 or 4) and any intervention for severely bothersome
symptoms at weeks 4 and 8 will be compared between groups for each symptom using mixed-effects logistic
regression analysis that takes cluster effects into account. For the secondary endpoint of unplanned health
services utilization (emergency and clinic visits and hospitalizations), the number of visits or unplanned
admissions per child will be counted over the 8-week period and compared between randomized groups using
a mixed-effects Poisson or negative binomial regression analysis (with zero-inflation if necessary), accounting
for site.
     Child sex, race, ethnicity, diagnosis (leukemia/lymphoma, solid tumor vs brain tumor), cancer stage,
socioeconomic status and guardian education will be described. If a covariate is found, blinded to group
treatment assignment, to be associated with the 8-week total SSPedi scores, it will be included in each of the
regression analyses described above for primary and secondary outcomes. In addition, psychosocial
resources and characteristics of the usual care provided by each site (e.g. routine systematic symptom
screening, availability of CPGs and care pathways for symptom management) will be described and accounted
for in exploratory regression and stratified analysis. For sex in particular, we also will determine if the impact of
the intervention is moderated by sex by including an interaction term in the model and we will explore stratified
analysis by sex.
     For the exploratory aim, we propose to describe key elements related to the external validity and
generalizability of the intervention effects using the RE-AIM framework. These analyses will be descriptive.
     In terms of data management, SPARK data are stored on the SickKids server each time SSPedi is
completed. This process was used in SSPedi and other SPARK multi-institutional trials; processes met
institutional privacy and IRB requirements to maintain personal health information. Data outside of SSPedi
scores including demographics, non-SSPedi outcomes and covariates will be maintained in a REDCap
database. The database will have data validation checks to maximize data quality at data entry. Data will be
downloaded and evaluated quarterly to identify missing data and perform additional data validation checks.

Feasibility and Recruitment Rate
    Among the 20 sites that have agreed to participate, there are expected to be 60 patients/ month who are
newly diagnosed with cancer 8-18 years of age and who speak English or Spanish. Assuming that 60% meet
eligibility criteria (for example, some patients will not receive treatment for cancer such as those with low grade
brain tumors and some centers provide consultation only services for newly diagnosed patients), and 75%
agree to participate (conservative estimate based upon other SPARK studies), we anticipate enrollment of 27
patients/month. Thus, to reach the target sample size of 444 patients, enrollment is anticipated to be complete
within 2 to 2.5 years (this allows for periods of slow enrollment such as holidays or when research personnel
have limited availability). In terms of timelines, start-up activities will require 12 months, enrollment and follow-
up of the last patient will require 24 to 36 months, data analysis will require nine months and knowledge
dissemination will be completed within three months. Thus, the entire study will require five years to complete.
    The time commitment of participants, providers and research staff is expected to be similar to other
supportive care and SPARK trials and we do not anticipate barriers with respect to effort required. Abstraction
of symptom documentation and intervention provision will be done over a short time frame (3 days for each of
two time points (weeks 4 and 8)); pilot work at SickKids has shown this workload to be modest. The PROs at
weeks 4 and 8 will require <5-10 minutes to complete and can be completed electronically.

Knowledge Translation and Exchange
    The targets of our KTE efforts are patients, families, healthcare providers and decision makers including
hospital and governmental administrators.
Integrated KTE: To increase awareness and to engage with a variety of stakeholders, we will create an
Advisory Panel. The Panel will include two childhood cancer survivors, one parent of a child with cancer,
                                                                                      Version Date: February 26, 2020
                                                                                                         Page 7 of 12
