Version Date: November 21, 2023


Objectives
Aims 1 and 2: Among children with newly diagnosed cancer, to determine if symptom screening
and feedback to healthcare providers at least three times weekly and locally-adapted symptom
management care pathways, when compared to usual care:
       Aim 1. Improves overall self-reported symptom scores (total SSPedi score), fatigue
       (PROMIS–Fatigue) and cancer-specific quality of life (QoL) (PedsQL 3.0 Acute Cancer
       Module) over 8 weeks.
       Hypothesis: Symptom screening and care pathways will improve symptoms, fatigue and
       QoL
       Aim 2. Improves symptom documentation, increases provision of interventions for
       symptoms, and reduces emergency department visits and unplanned clinic visits and
       hospitalizations over 8 weeks.
       Hypotheses: Symptom screening and care pathways will increase symptom
       documentation and provision of interventions for symptoms, and will reduce healthcare
       utilization.
Aim 3: As an exploratory aim, we will evaluate key elements of the intervention related to the
external validity and generalizability of the intervention effects using the RE-AIM framework.

Sample Size Justification
         The primary endpoint is the total self-reported SSPedi score at eight weeks. We used
data from our SSPedi validation study for power calculation. In that study, we recruited 302
children across nine sites who were hospitalized and expected to be in hospital or in clinic three
days later. Children completed SSPedi on days 1 and 4 and a 5-point global symptom change
scale on day 4. The average absolute change in total SSPedi scores for those who reported they
were a little better or a little worse on this global change scale (a 1-point change) was 2.7 while
the average absolute change in total SSPedi scores for those who reported they were much
better or much worse (a 2-point change) was 5.6. Thus, the minimum plausible clinically
important difference is likely approximately 3.0 but may be higher. The intracluster correlation
coefficient (ICC), a measure of the degree of clustering, was 0.021 (95% confidence interval (CI)
0 to 0.123). In power calculations for the proposed study, we used ICC=0.021 but show
sensitivity analyses to ICCs at the extremes of the 95% CI (which are unlikely). Among the 20
sites in the proposed trial, we anticipate that four will each contribute eight patients, four will
each contribute 32 patients, and the remaining 12 will each contribute 20 patients, for a total of
400 patients. With these cluster sizes, Table 1 shows power for combinations of these ICCs and
clinically important differences, at a 2-sided alpha of 0.05 and assuming a within-cluster
standard deviation of 8.8 (derived from the SSPedi validation study). Power for each
combination in the table was calculated through simulation of 4000 trials. Each one was
analyzed with a linear mixed effects model clustering by site and the percentage with a
significant P value was taken as the estimate of power. If there is a baseline characteristic, such
as age, that explains 20% of the variance in 8-week scores, including that variable in analyses
increases power to the value shown in the far right column. Table 1 shows that assuming a
minimal clinically important difference of 3.0 and with inclusion of age as a covariate in the
analysis, there is 85% power with ICC=0.021. Assuming that 10% of patients have missing final

                                                                                                 2
