Version Date: November 21, 2023


        CI. Two figures will be generated to present these results graphically: (a) to display the
        raw outcome data, a set of 15 pairs of stacked barplots will be created; within each pair,
        the stacked barplot will show the percentages of participants with scores of 0-4 in the
        control and intervention groups; (b) a forest-plot type figure will be created showing the
        estimated odds ratios with 95% CIs for each of the 15 symptoms.
   2.   PROMIS Fatigue Scale: This scale will be treated as a continuous variable and analyzed
        using a linear mixed effects model in the same way as the primary SSPedi outcome.
   3.   PedsQL 3.0 Acute Cancer Module domain scores: Each of these 8 scores will be treated
        as continuous variables and analyzed using a linear mixed effects model in the same way
        as the primary SSPedi outcome. A forest-plot type figure will be created showing the
        estimated treatment effects with 95% CIs for each of the 8 domains.
   4.   Documentation of symptoms on weeks 4 and 8 (± 1 day): Analyses will involve three
        analyses for each symptom class. Each analysis will fit a mixed effects logistic regression
        model to estimate the odds ratio for documentation (on weeks 4 and 8) comparing
        intervention groups, adjusting for stratification factors. It is possible that there will be
        too few documentation events to reliably fit this mixed model to all 15 symptoms. If this
        model cannot be fitted to some symptoms (likely because the random effects variance
        cannot be estimated), we will fit a fixed effects logistic regression model to just those
        symptoms. Three cohorts will be defined:
            a. Each participant will be classed as having the symptom documented or not. All
                 participants are included in the analytic sample for each symptom.
            b. The analytic sample will be limited to those participants who self-report the
                 symptom on weeks 4 and 8 (symptom score > 0).
            c. The analytic sample will be limited to those participants who have the most
                 bothersome self-report of the symptom on the weeks 4 and 8 SSPedi (symptom
                 ƐĐŽƌĞшϯ).
   5.   Interventions for symptoms: Analyses will follow a similar flow to the analyses of
        documentation of symptoms. For each of the 15 symptoms, each participant will be
        classified as having an intervention at weeks 4 and 8 (±1 days). Also collected is
        whether interventions were administered specifically for the specific symptoms. For
        example, acetaminophen may be administered for fever or pain. As interventions are
        expected to be more uncommon than symptoms, all treatment effects will be estimated
        by simple differences in the proportions with interventions (i.e., ignoring clustering), p-
        values will be computed from the Fisher exact test, and 95% CI for differences in
        proportions will use the Newcombe method. Three cohorts will be defined:
            a. Each participant will be classed as having an intervention for the symptom or
                 not. All participants are included in the analytic sample for each intervention-
                 symptom pair.
            b. The analytic sample will be limited to those participants who self-report the
                 symptom on the weeks 4 and 8 SSPedi (symptom score > 0).
            c. The analytic sample will be limited to those participants who have the most
                 bothersome self-report of the symptom on the weeks 4 and 8 SSPedi (symptom
                 ƐĐŽƌĞшϯ).


                                                                                                  6
