provided vs. no intervention provided. Interventions included in the local care pathway will be
noted. Both documentation of symptoms and interventions for these symptoms will be described
for each specific symptom at each time point. These outcomes will be obtained on each day that
a week 4 or 8 SSPedi assessment was obtained (as measured in conjunction with the other
PROs) with a one day window before and after these assessments. For example, if the
participant completed SSPedi on a Tuesday, we would accept documentation of that symptom
(or provision of an intervention for that symptom) if it were recorded in the health records on
Monday, Tuesday or Wednesday. A comprehensive and field-tested list of synonyms for
symptoms and interventions is available for each of the 15 symptoms in SSPedi.4 We found
study data could be abstracted with minimal training and effort. De-identified source
documentation will be sent to the coordinating center for quality assurance.
     Exploratory endpoints for Aim 3 will be RE-AIM characteristics to measure reach,
effectiveness, adoption and implementation. For reach, we propose to describe the baseline
demographic characteristics of eligible patients who participate and who do not participate. We
will describe site attributes using the inner setting measures from the CFIR as measured at
baseline.26,27 These attributes include culture, culture stress, culture effort, implementation
climate, learning climate, leadership engagement and available resources. Effectiveness will be
evaluated through primary and secondary outcomes and also by comparisons of the
percentages of patients with severely bothersome symptoms within intervention and control
sites. We will characterize adoption at intervention sites by describing characteristics of sites
and providers at those sites. Site characteristics will include pediatric vs. mixed adult and
pediatric, number of pediatric cancer patients diagnosed annually, and percentage of patients
anticipated to have private, public or no insurance. Healthcare provider characteristics will
include number of physician and nurse practitioner full-time equivalents and median years in
practice. Adoption will be assessed through the number of SSPedi per participant completed at
intervention institutions; this analysis will use duration of time on protocol therapy as an offset.
Further, we will dichotomize each participant as a high or low SSPedi completer, with a high
completer being defined as one who completed 15 or more SSPedi. This analysis will use those
who complete protocol therapy as planned as the denominator. In addition, we will count the
number of times the institutional care pathways were clicked at intervention sites. We will
describe the total number of clicks overall and by specific care pathway, access route (email link
or QR code) and device (iPad, iPhone, Mac, Windows or unknown). Implementation outcomes
will capture the percentages of intervention patients who came off protocol therapy early and the
number of all participants who came off study early, both overall and stratified by intervention or
control group.

Off Protocol and Off Study Criteria
Off protocol criteria only apply to intervention sites. When off protocol criteria are met, the
reminders to complete symptom screening via SPARK will be discontinued but the collection of
PROs will continue until off study criteria are met.

Off protocol criteria:
    a) Refusal to continue with study intervention
    b) Physician determines it is in the patient’s best interest
    c) Death
    d) Completion of planned study intervention
    e) Other, describe

Off study criteria:
    a) Withdrawal of consent for further data submission
    b) Physician determines it is in the patient’s best interest
    c) Death
    d) Completion of planned study observations (Up to 10 weeks after enrollment to allow
        window around week 8 assessment and to allow ability to abstract health records




                                                                                        Page 8 of 17
