METHODS

Overall Strategy
    This is a cluster randomized trial including 20 pediatric oncology sites. The coordinating
center is The Hospital for Sick Children in Toronto, Canada. Sites will be randomized to either
systematic symptom screening via SPARK with provision of symptom reports to healthcare
providers containing links to care pathways for symptom management (intervention) or usual
care (control).

Research Methods
Eligibility: We will include children with cancer who: (1) are 8-18 years of age at enrollment
(SSPedi is validated in this age range); (2) are English or Spanish-speaking (all PROs are
validated in these languages in this age range); (3) have any newly diagnosed cancer; (4) have
a plan for any chemotherapy, radiotherapy or surgery; (5) have a plan to be followed by or
receive care from the study LQVWLWXWLRQIRU•RIWKH-week study period and expected to be
available on site or virtually for the week 8 assessment and (6) enroll within 28 days after
diagnosis or treatment initiation, whichever occurs later. Exclusion criteria will be cognitive
disability (attending lower than second grade or equivalent) or visual impairment (cannot see
SPARK even with corrective lens).

Procedures: In this cluster randomized trial, we will randomize sites to either intervention or
control groups. At both intervention and control sites, we will enroll participants within 28 days
after diagnosis or treatment initiation, whichever occurs later. Eligible participants will be
identified by site personnel and the study will be explained to them by trained research team
members. Participant capacity to consent will be assessed by the clinical or research team
according to institutional standards. After the study has been explained and sufficient time has
been provided to ensure all questions have been answered, informed consent and assent will
be obtained from participants and guardians as appropriate. For those who decline to contribute
PROs, they will be given the option to only participate in a retrospective chart review to evaluate
symptom documentation, intervention provision and healthcare utilization. Careful tracking of all
newly diagnosed patients by site research personnel will occur to determine how many patients
are approached and consented, and where possible, reasons for declining participation.
     For all enrolled participants who will be contributing PROs (excluding those only involved in
the retrospective chart review), a personal SPARK account will be created to allow SSPedi to be
completed and symptom results to be recorded. At the 10 intervention sites, site-specific
symptom management care pathways will be adapted from template care pathways for each of
the 15 symptoms included in SSPedi. Enrolled participants will be prompted by text or email to
complete symptom screening three times weekly via SPARK with corresponding feedback sent
to their healthcare providers. Participants may be contacted in person, by email, text, or over the
phone to ensure there are no technical barriers to completing SSPedi. Symptom reports will
contain links to care pathways for symptom management. Active intervention will last for eight
weeks starting from the date of enrollment. At the 10 control sites, participants will complete
SSPedi to obtain the primary outcome at weeks 0, 4 and 8 but the scores will not be revealed to
providers and will not be linked to care pathways. Usual care will be provided to participants at
control sites and thus, there will be no study-requested routine, systematic symptom screening,
symptom feedback to providers, or linkage to care pathways. If sites already routinely perform
systematic symptom screening or use care pathways for symptom management, these may be
continued but their use will be recorded.
     At both intervention and control sites, demographic information including age, sex, race,
ethnicity, diagnosis, cancer stage, family socioeconomic information and treatment plan will be
collected at enrollment. The following PROs will be obtained by trained research staff at
baseline, week 4 and week 8 for all participants: SSPedi, PROMIS Fatigue and the PedsQL 3.0
Acute Cancer Module (Aim 1). We will contact participants ahead of time to coordinate the week




                                                                                       Page 4 of 17
