BACKGROUND

      Over the last few decades, impressive gains in survival for children and adolescents with
cancer have been made and now, more than 82% of children with cancer will be cured.1 These
survival gains have been, in part, attributable to the provision of intensive therapies. However,
as a result, most children suffer and experience severe and distressing treatment-related
symptoms such as pain, fatigue and nausea.2 In our cross-sectional study of 302 inpatients 8-18
years of age, when asked about yesterday or today, 99% of children experienced at least one
bothersome symptom and 60% experienced at least one severely bothersome symptom,
including severe pain in 22% and severe fatigue in 33%.3 Symptoms are important; we
previously demonstrated a strong correlation between increasing symptom burden and worse
quality of life (QoL) in children receiving cancer treatments.3 Given excellent survival outcomes,
we now need to focus more attention on symptom control.
      To gain insight into why symptoms are uncontrolled, we evaluated 168 children and
described the extent to which symptoms self-reported as severely bothersome were
documented in the health record and for which any interventions were provided.4 We created a
standard operating procedure and a list of synonyms that met criteria for documentation of
symptoms. For example, “tired”, “feel weak”, “low energy”, and “sluggish” were all considered
adequate documentation for fatigue. We also created a list of possible interventions for each
symptom. For most of the symptoms measured (12/15), severely bothersome symptoms were
documented in the health record less than 60% of the time. The most infrequently documented
severely bothersome symptoms were problems with thinking or remembering things (0%),
changes in how your body or face look (4.8%), changes in taste (7.7%) and tingly or numb
hands or feet (11.1%). Only two severely bothersome symptoms were documented at least 80%
of the time, namely hurt or pain (92.6%) and throwing up or feeling like you might throw up
(92.6%).
      Provision of an intervention to address severely bothersome symptoms occurred less than
60% of the time for 10 of 15 symptoms. The most infrequently treated severely bothersome
symptoms were thinking or remembering things (0%), changes in how your body or face look
(0%), tingly or numb hands or feet (0%), changes in taste (0%), diarrhea (0%) and feeling tired
(1.6%). Intervention provision was most common for hurt or pain (96.3%), headache (89.5%),
throwing up or feeling like you might throw up (88.9%) and constipation (84.2%). However, even
when interventions were provided, they were often not prescribed specifically for that symptom
(for example, acetaminophen for fever rather than pain).
      Within the adult oncology setting, screening and assessment of symptoms through patient
self-report has been identified as an important priority.5-8 In adult cancer patients, routine
collection of patient-reported outcomes (PROs) improves patient-clinician communication9,
reduces distress10 and improves QoL.11,12 Furthermore, a recent randomized trial showed that
routine PRO assessment may improve survival in adult patients with metastatic solid tumors.13
Among participants that were randomized to symptom screening vs. standard of care, median
overall survival was 31.2 months (95% confidence interval (CI) 24.5 to 39.6) in the symptom
screening group vs. 26.0 months (95% CI 22.1 to 30.9) in the standard of care group (P=0.03).
Consequently, routine assessment of PROs is now considered essential to high quality care.11 It
is also known that delivery of care consistent with clinical practice guidelines (CPGs) can
improve patient outcomes. For example, timely administration of CPG-consistent antibiotics to
adult patients with fever and neutropenia resulted in significantly lower mortality compared to
patients who did not receive CPG-consistent antibiotics.14 However, adherence to CPGs is
generally poor.15,16
      In contrast to these accomplishments in adults, efforts in children are limited.17 To help
address this gap, we developed SSPedi (Symptom Screening in Pediatrics Tool; Appendix
1)18,19 and SPARK (Supportive care Prioritization, Assessment and Recommendations for Kids;
Appendix 2). SSPedi is a self-reported 15-item symptom screening tool for children receiving
cancer treatments. SSPedi consists of the following 15 items: disappointed or sad, scared or
worried, cranky or angry, problems thinking, body or face changes, tiredness, mouth sores,




                                                                                      Page 2 of 17
