Outcomes: Similar tables will be created for all study outcomes. Individual SSPedi symptom
scores will be summarized by the percentages of participants with scores of 3 or 4, the two most
bothersome categories.

Comparative Analyses: The primary analysis will use the patient-level 8-week total SSPedi
score as the outcome in a mixed linear regression model with a random effect for cluster, fixed
effects for treatment assignment, child age and diagnosis group (leukemia/lymphoma, solid
tumor and central nervous system tumor), and two binary fixed effects at the cluster level for
stratification variables (above or below the average anticipated yearly number of English or
Spanish-speaking cancer patients 8-18 years of age, and above or below the average
anticipated percentage of patients with private insurance vs. other payment types). Child age
and diagnosis group will be included as they are known to be associated with total SSPedi
scores; this will reduce residual variance in scores. We do not plan to adjust the model for
baseline SSPedi score because some of the care pathway interventions (that are prophylactic)
will affect symptoms prior to enrollment and the baseline score may already reflect some benefit
of the cluster’s treatment assignment. The treatment effect will be the covariate-adjusted mean
difference between study groups in 8-week SSPedi, presented with a 95% CI and a two-sided
p-value for a test of no treatment effect. If we find the residuals from the mixed model fitted to
the 8-week total SSPedi score deviate substantially from normality, we will conduct sensitivity
analyses, one using normalizing transformations of the outcome and another using an ordinal
regression model. To account for potential differential enrollment of surgery only patients (who
might not be cared for by oncology teams) between intervention vs. control sites, we will also
conduct a sensitivity analysis restricted to patients that received systemic chemotherapy.

       Secondary outcomes will be analyzed as follows:
1. Self-reported individual symptoms at weeks 4 and 8 on the SSPedi instrument: For
   each of the 15 ordinal outcomes representing symptoms (scored 0-4), a mixed effects
   proportional odds model will be fitted using treatment assignment and stratification factors
   as fixed effects covariates and with a random effect for site. As some individual symptoms
   may be uncommon, to avoid specifying models that may be overfitted for those symptoms,
   these models will use only this minimal set of three covariates. The estimated odds ratio for
   the intervention (representing the odds of having a higher vs. lower score in the intervention
   group) will be estimated and presented along with a 95% CI.
2. PROMIS Fatigue Scale: This scale will be treated as a continuous variable and analyzed
   using a linear mixed effects model in the same way as the primary SSPedi outcome.
3. PedsQL 3.0 Acute Cancer Module domain scores: Each of these 8 scores will be treated
   as continuous variables and analyzed using a linear mixed effects model in the same way
   as the primary SSPedi outcome.
4. Documentation of symptoms on weeks 4 and 8 (± 1 day): Analyses will involve three
   analyses for each symptom class. Each analysis will fit a mixed effects logistic regression
   model to estimate the odds ratio for documentation (on weeks 4 and 8) comparing
   intervention groups, adjusting for stratification factors. It is possible that there will be too few
   documentation events to reliably fit this mixed model to all 15 symptoms. If this model
   cannot be fitted to some symptoms (likely because the random effects variance cannot be
   estimated), we will fit a fixed effects logistic regression model to just those symptoms. Three
   cohorts will be defined:
       a. Each participant will be classed as having the symptom documented or not. All
           participants are included in the analytic sample for each symptom.
       b. The analytic sample will be limited to those participants who self-report the symptom
           on weeks 4 and 8 (symptom score > 0).




                                                                                          Page 10 of 17
