Version Date: November 21, 2023


   6. Unplanned encounters: For each of the secondary endpoints of unplanned health
      services utilization (emergency, clinic visits, hospitalizations, and the total across
      categories), the number of events per child will be counted over the 8-week period and
      compared between randomized groups using a mixed-effects Poisson or negative
      binomial regression analysis (with zero-inflation if necessary), with a random effect for
      site and fixed effects for the two stratification factors. If a child has less than 8 weeks of
      follow-up, the model will include an offset equal to the logarithm of each child’s follow-
      up time.

Exploratory Outcomes
   1. Reach: we will describe the baseline demographic characteristics (sex, age or age group
      and diagnosis group) of eligible patients who participate and who do not participate
      using means and standard deviations for continuous variables and counts and
      percentages for categorical variables. The difference between participants and non-
      participants will be summarized two ways: numerically by the standardized mean
      difference and graphically by side-by-side barplots for categorical variables and by side-
      by side beeswarm plots for continuous variables. We will also summarize CFIR inner
      setting attributes as counts and percentages.
   2. Effectiveness: In addition to the analyses of primary and secondary outcomes detailed
      above, we will also carry out analyses that dichotomize each of the 15 SSPedi symptoms
      as being severely bothersome (3 or 4) or not. Percentages for each symptom will be
      tabulated and compared between intervention groups using mixed effects binary
      logistic regression. We will also assess between-site variation in the odds of having a
      severely bothersome symptom (after adjusting for intervention and stratification
      factors) by plotting the random effects associated with each site and by calculating the
      median odds ratio (MOR). This is an alternative measure of clustering (or between-
      cluster variability); it is the estimated median of the ratio of the odds of a bothersome
      symptom for a participant at one site to the odds of a bothersome symptom for an
      otherwise identical participant at another site. The MOR is always defined with the
      higher odds in the numerator. One appealing aspect of the MOR is that it is on the same
      scale as the odds ratio for treatment, aiding interpretation of both the OR for
      intervention and the MOR for variation in the outcome.
   3. Adoption: We will characterize adoption at intervention sites by summarizing the
      following:
          a. characteristics of sites and their providers
          b. number of SSPedis completed per enrolled participant
          c. proportion of participants that are high or low SSPedi completers
          d. number of times the institutional care pathways were clicked.
               Site and provider attributes will be described by using means and standard
      deviations for continuous variables and counts and percentages for categorical
      variables. Site characteristics will include pediatric vs. mixed adult and pediatric, number
      of pediatric cancer patients diagnosed annually, and percentage of patients anticipated
      to have private, public or no insurance. Healthcare professional characteristics will


                                                                                                   7
