Symptom Screening Linked to Care Pathways for Children with Cancer: a Cluster Randomized Trial
Study Protocol

encrypted emails; these will be used where required.
    Qualitative feedback from providers receiving these reports in our pilot study has been positive. When
specifically asked, receiving these reports was not considered burdensome. In fact, providers found reports
helpful to communicate symptom experience and to initiate or escalate symptom management interventions.

c) Creation of Local Care Pathways for Symptom Management: Care pathway templates for symptom
management have been drafted for each of the 15 items included in SSPedi. These are primarily based on
COG-endorsed CPGs. To supplement SSPedi symptom care pathway templates for which COG-endorsed
CPGs exist and to address SSPedi symptoms for which COG-endorsed CPGs do not exist, templates are also
based on “good practice statements”35. In brief, “good practice statements” are guidance statements regarding
the provision of care where to provide care in any other way would be considered unethical or absurd.
Guideline experts have explicitly acknowledged their necessity and have published guidance for how and when
to use such statements.35 Upon study activation, we will work with each of the 10 intervention sites to develop
site-specific, adapted care pathways that consider relevant work flows, institutional culture and available
resources (laboratory tests, medications and personnel); this process will require three months to complete.
The finalized local care pathways will contain explicit direction for how to prevent and manage symptoms at
each site. The process for creating local care pathways will be based upon a procedure we developed for CPG
adaptation, will require local inter-professional input and will be finalized at an in-person meeting at the site.26
This process incorporates activities known to promote practice change and enhance implementation. Activities
include appreciation of local resources and values, identification of local barriers and facilitators, stakeholder
participation in decision making, education of healthcare professionals and creation of implementation tools. It
is expected that across the 10 sites, the care pathways could differ substantially in some areas, such as which
profession or specialty should be consulted and choice of specific medications to treat a symptom, but that
there should be similarities across all 10 local care pathways since they have a common evidence base. Each
care pathway will contain links to the healthcare provider SPARK portal so that providers can view the source
CPG summary or full guideline document upon which the care pathway was based. Annually, we will assess
how the initial adaptations have changed to gain insight into the adaptation process over the course of the
study and to evaluate how the process might inform future implementation of care pathways. Adaptations will
be summarized and will be made available to all intervention sites during the study, and will be widely available
to all sites following study completion as part of knowledge translation, and as a component of the RE-AIM
implementation evaluation.

d) Training: From a patient participant perspective, training on how to use SPARK and how to interpret SPARK
symptom reports will be provided at enrollment. From a healthcare provider perspective, training on how to
interpret SPARK symptom reports, CPGs and care pathways will be provided to each site during the in-person
meeting to adapt symptom management care pathways and via a webinar at study activation and regularly
throughout the study to educate new staff and to re-enforce knowledge for existing staff. Different aspects of
training also will be highlighted during the site calls every two weeks. Stories of successful implementation at a
particular site will be shared so that all sites can benefit. Technical assistance and support will be available to
providers throughout the study from SickKids where SPARK is located.

Procedures at Control Sites: At control sites, usual care will be provided, which may or may not include
symptom screening, access to CPGs or care pathways. Participants will complete SSPedi to obtain the primary
outcome at weeks 0, 4 and 8 but the scores will not be revealed to providers and will not be linked to care
pathways.

Describing Site Characteristics (both Intervention and Control Sites): In order to describe supportive care
practices that could impact on intervention effectiveness and to gain insight into future implementation
(adoption), the site PIs will complete a short questionnaire at study activation (baseline prior to randomization)
and annually while participants are being enrolled. Questions will include demographic characteristics of
patients and providers (only at baseline), psychosocial resources available for pediatric cancer patients and
current approaches to systematic symptom screening, symptom management CPG availability and care
pathway existence for SSPedi symptoms. CPG availability will be defined as either the posting of CPGs
themselves or links to CPGs on an institutional website or drive that is available to all oncology providers (not
an individual clinician’s computer only). Care pathway use will be defined as a written set of instructions for the
management of a symptom that is available to all oncology providers at that site. At intervention sites,
                                                                                     Version Date: February 26, 2020
                                                                                                        Page 4 of 12
