CALGB 70807

within 26 months (13, 15). In the Toronto cohRUW  SURJUHVVHG DIWHU  PRQWKV
however, the definition of progression for most of the follow-up period was based on a PSA
DT of 2 years or pathology progression to Gleason grade 8. Klotz estimated that 20
percent of patients would progress on the basis of a PSA DT of 3 years, while 5 to 10%
would progress on the basis of tumor grade progression. Moreover, up to 12% of men who
do not meet objective criteria for progression will opt for intervention (11). Thus, in total,
over 40% of men on AS will progress or proceed to treatment. Reducing the proportion of
men who progress or choose treatment while on AS for prostate cancer represents a novel
opportunity to minimize treatment-associated morbidity, improve patient quality of life,
and contain health care costs.
1.3

Diet and Prostate Cancer
The existence of a distinct, relatively indolent phenotype in prostate cancer presents an
important opportunity. A potential means of decreasing the number of men on AS who
proceed to treatment is dietary change. There is great interest in the role of diet in the
etiology and natural history of prostate cancer (17, 18). Accumulating evidence suggests
that diet may alter prostate cancer initiation and progression. Macronutrients and
micronutrients associated with decreased prostate cancer risk include retinoids,
carotenoids (particularly lycopene), cruciferous vegetables, dietary fat, soy products,
folate, retinol, vitamin D, and omega fatty acids (17-23). A range of phytochemicals in
fruits and vegetables could have effects on a metabolically active organ like the prostate,
and a number of plausible mechanisms have been proposed (24-39).
Experimental studies based on cell line and animal models suggest that vegetable intake
may lessen the risk or retard the progress of prostate cancer. Rats fed tomato powder
have decreased prostate-cancer specific mortality compared to controls (24) and, in vitro,
lycopene inhibits DNA synthesis in prostate epithelial cells (25). Cell line and animal data
support the anti-carcinogenic properties of isothiocyanates, which are components of
cruciferous vegetables such as broccoli and cabbage. Isothiocyanates induce expression
of cytoprotective phase 2 enzymes in multiple prostate tumor cell lines (26, 31) promote
apoptosis of prostate cancer PC-3 cells in vitro, and inhibit growth of PC-3 xenografts in
nude mice (28). In a prostatectomy model, men fed a tomato intensive diet had distinct
biological changes potentially associated with suppression of prostate tumors (30).
Indirect evidence from epidemiology, ecological, case-control and cohort studies in
humans suggests that altering nutritional intake may provide beneficial effects against
prostate cancer (18). This evidence suggests a diet that emphasizes vegetable intake and
de-emphasizes meat and fat intake may decrease the risk of prostate cancer initiation
and progression. The most direct evidence for this supposition has been provided by
studies of whole foods rather than micronutrients. Red meat and fat intakes tend to be
associated with inFUHDVHG ULVN SDUWLFXODUO\ RI DJJUHVVLYH FDQFHU  FUXFLIHURXV YHJHWDEOHV
and tomatoes and tomato products tend to be most closely associated with decreased risk
(20-23, 33).
Recent observational data also indicate that weight loss may alter the natural history of
prostate cancer: among men in the Cancer Prevention Study II Nutrition Cohort, weight
ORVV!OEVRYHU\HDUVZDVDVVRFLDWHGZLWKDUHGXFWLRQIRUKLJK-grade cancer risk
(34). Follow up of the Prostate Cancer Prevention Trial cohort indicateGWKDWD%0,!
kg/m2 was associated with an 18% decreased risk of low-grade prostate cancer and a
29% increased risk of high-grade prostate cancer (35). Low serum cholesterol was
associated in this same study with decreased risk of high grade prostate cancer (36).
To date, human experimental evidence supporting epidemiologic and pre-clinical findings,
though intriguing, is limited. Isothiocyanates derived from cruciferous vegetables enter
the human prostate following oral consumption and may be associated with anticarcinogenic, phase 2 enzyme activity in prostate tissue (29, 31). In a small intervention
study, patients with recurrent prostate cancer experienced decreased PSA doubling times
six months after beginning treatment with diet modification and stress reduction (37). In
another small clinical trial of active surveillance patients, randomization to a plant-based
diet with micronutrient supplements and intensive lifestyle changes resulted in decreased

Version Date 09/26/18

Update #10
6

