CALGB 70807

serum PSA concentrations, inhibition of prostate cancer cell growth, and progression to
DFWLYHWUHDWPHQW  DQRWKHUQRQ-randomized pilot study utilizing a similar intervention
(plant based whole foods coupled with exercise and stress management) resulted in
significant changes in prostate gene expression (39).
These studies provide preliminary clinical evidence that diet change may slow prostate
cancer progression. Still, they were small studies with only short-term (~ 1 year) followup. Moreover, as it is impossible to isolate the effects of diet from those of exercise, stress
management, and group support, these changes in PSA and cancer cell growth cannot
with certainty be attributed solely to dietary change. On the other hand, the most likely
factor driving these changes is diet. In addition, whether intensive lifestyle modifications
such as exercise, yoga, and stress management would be practicable, sustainable
behaviors in large groups of patients remain to be seen. An adequately powered trial,
focusing on diet as a primary form of intervention, is needed.
We previously designed and implemented a telephone-based dietary intervention for
prostate cancer patients based on well-established principles of social cognitive theory.
This relatively straightforward intervention, the first to use diet change as a primary
treatment for low risk prostate cancer, produced robust, beneficial diet changes (i.e.
significantly increased vegetable intakes) and led to increased plasma levels of potentially
anti-carcinogenic carotenoids in prostate cancer patients (40-42). We believe that the next
step is to determine, in a suitable study sample, whether these diet changes, marked by
increased plasma carotenoid levels, will exert a clinically relevant and sustainable effect
on prostate cancer progression.
1.4

Dietary Intervention in an Active Surveillance (AS) Population
Men on AS represent a compelling population for studying diet change and prostate
cancer for at least 4 reasons. First, approximately 100,000 men are diagnosed with lowerrisk prostate cancer every year in the US. Some 42% of men on AS progress to treatment
 EHFDXVH RI GLVHDVH SURJUHVVLRQ  EHFDXVH RI DQ[LHW\  UHGXFLQJ WKLV SURSRUWLRQ
represents a realistic and valuable therapeutic and public health goal (8, 9, 11, 13).
Second, clinically localized, lower-risk cancer may potentially be more affected by dietary
change than more advanced, aggressive disease. If diet is related to the risk of prostate
FDQFHULWPD\ZHOOH[HUWDQLPSDFWRQWKHHDUOLHVWSKDVHVRISURVWDWHFDQFHULWVLPSDFW
may best be tested in an AS population. Third, AS patients are not receiving active
therapy (i.e. radiation, surgery, or androgen) that would otherwise obscure or modify any
beneficial effects of dietary change. Finally, AS patients would likely be receptive to
nutritional interventions with proven benefits for cardiovascular and overall health (8, 11,
43).
Indeed, because prostate cancer diagnosis is a source of considerable anxiety and
diminished quality of life for many patients diagnosed with lower-risk disease (44-46),
dietary change might not only exert therapeutic biological effects on the tumor, but might
also encourage men with lower-risk prostate cancer and no signs of progression to remain
within an AS program. As previously noted, up to 12% of patients with no objective PSA
or pathologic indications of progression nonetheless opt for treatment that may not
improve their prognosis (11). Treatment preferences in this situation are generally
believed to arise, to a large extent, from patient anxiety and discomfort over not receiving
curative therapy. This attitude is likely fostered by the action-oriented approach that
characterizes our current health care system (8). However, prostate cancer-related anxiety
and its effects on treatment choice have not as yet been prospectively studied in an AS
population.
Diet change presents an ideal opportunity for AS patients to alter the perception of their
disease by providing an intervention on which to focus. This approach may dissuade
otherwise lower-risk men from pursuing unnecessarily aggressive, morbidity-generating
treatments. Such an approach would promulgate a novel therapeutic paradigm for lowerrisk prostate cancer: medical management, without radical intervention, in a chronic
disease state.

Version Date 09/26/18

Update #10
7

