We conducted several sensitivity analyses for our primary outcome analysis, including all residents who initiated
treatment, with missing diary data imputed under four different scenarios:
     • Hypothetical scenario incorporating reason for death: in this scenario, we have assumed that any resident
        who died due to infection will have been taking antibiotics on all missing diary days, with the remainder
        having their rate imputed for the remaining missing days (i.e. their rate on missing days will be assumed
        to reflect their rate on observed days).

We also considered the extent to which residents not fully or partially taking study product on a given day may
impact the conclusions drawn on the primary outcome. To investigate this, we modelled the CAAD rate as a
continuous outcome and fitted a two-stage least squares instrumental variable regression model to CAAD, with
randomization used as the instrument and the exposure being the percentage of study product fully or partially
taken (with this set to zero in the placebo arm). We fitted the model adjusting for CHR sex and using cluster robust
standard errors to account for residents within care homes. The interpretation from the model coefficients is the
adjusted mean difference in cumulative systemic antibiotic administration days per percentage point increase in
the percentage of study product fully/partially taken. For presentation purposes, we multiplied this coefficient
(and associated 95% confidence interval) by 100, to estimate the effect of probiotic combination under the scenario
whereby participants took their study product fully/partially 100% of the time.

Primary outcome analysis:
The mean cumulative systemic antibiotic administration days per resident-year was compared between arms by
fitting a two-level negative binomial regression model, accounting for participants nested within care homes, the
length of time observed, and the sex of the care home resident.
Secondary outcome analyses:
Similar to the analysis of the primary outcome, the majority of secondary outcomes analyses (cumulative systemic
antibiotic administration days by infection type, rates of infections, rates of diarrhea) involved the between-arm
comparison of rate variables using two-level Poisson or negative binomial regression (depending on the presence
of over-dispersion). Where rates were low, single-level zero-inflated negative binomial regression models were
fitted. Robust standard errors were used to account for clustering of care home residents within care homes. All
models were adjusted for care home resident sex.
The mean duration of infection and mean duration of diarrhea episodes were compared between arms by fitting a
two-stage hurdle model, whereby the presence/absence of at least one episode was compared between arms by
fitting a two-level logistic regression model (care home residents nested within care homes, gender included in
the model) and, in those with at least one episode, the mean episode was compared between arms by fitting a two-
level linear regression model.
Mean differences for the EQ-5D and ICECAP-O measures were compared between arms by fitting two-level
linear regression models, adjusting for care home resident sex. Any transformations required to fulfil modelling
assumptions are described in table footnotes.
Differences between arms in the proportion of residents with Enterobacterales in stools, Enterobacterales in stools
resistant to at least one of the tested antibiotics, vancomycin resistant enterococci in stools, oral candidiasis in
saliva, and amount of oral candidiasis in saliva, at three-months and the second follow-up time point, were
investigated by fitting two-level logistic regression models (two-level ordinal regression models for amount of
oral candidiasis), adjusting for care home resident sex.
Subgroup analyses:
We explored the extent to which there were any differential treatment effects on cumulative systemic antibiotic
administration days by several pre-specified subgroups (care home resident sex, capacity to provide informed
consent for the trial at baseline, and level of clinical frailty at baseline) by extending the primary analysis and
fitting a sub-group by trial arm interaction.


Sensitivity analyses:
We investigated the consistency of the conclusions drawn on our primary outcome by
    • Including prophylactic antibiotic use in our definition of cumulative systemic antibiotic administration
         days
    • Ignoring periods of hospitalization from consideration from both numerator and denominator of our
         outcome




© 2020 American Medical Association. All rights reserved.
