eAppendix 1. Eligibility Criteria
Residents were eligible for the trial if they met all of the following inclusion criteria and none of the exclusion
criteria.

Inclusion criteria:
    ● Resident lived in a care home setting (residential, nursing or mixed)
    ● Resident was willing and able to give informed consent for participation in the trial OR if the resident
         lacked capacity, a consultee was willing to complete a consultee declaration form
    ● Aged 65 years or older

Exclusion criteria:
    ● Resident was known to be immunocompromised (requiring immunosuppressants, long term high dose
        oral, intramuscular or intravenous steroids)
    ● Resident was currently taking regular probiotics and not willing to adapt to trial protocol
    ● Resident was currently participating in a CTIMP, or participated in a CTIMP in the last thirty days
    ● Resident was a temporary care home resident (i.e. less than 1 month of planned transitional/respite
        residential care)
    ● Death is thought to be imminent
    ● Lactose intolerant


eAppendix 2. Further Details of Trial Intervention
The probiotic or placebo was administered by the resident’s normal caregiver. The capsule was swallowed whole
with water (preferred route), emptied into a small amount of cold or lukewarm liquid and swallowed, or contents
sprinkled onto cold or lukewarm (not hot) food and eaten. Adherence was recorded on medication administration
record sheets, specifically, how the study product was given, and whether it was fully, partially, or not consumed.

eAppendix 3. Details on Derivation of Outcome Measures

Primary outcome:
Cumulative systemic antibiotic administration days for all-cause infection was a rate variable, with the number of
exposure days as the denominator and antibiotic administration days as the numerator. This was ascertained from
the total number of days of systemic antibiotic administration as recorded in care home medical records and
discharge summaries if the participant was admitted to hospital, collected retrospectively by the registered nurses
(blind to participant group allocation) during weekly visits to care home residents.

Secondary outcomes:
Antibiotic associated diarrhea defined as diarrhea occurring following the start of a course of antibiotic treatment
and up to eight weeks after stopping the antibiotic.

Cumulative day of antibiotic associated diarrhea was a rate variable, with the number of at-risk days as the
denominator and number of days with antibiotic associated diarrhea as the numerator. Number of at-risk days
defined as the number of days taking antibiotic and up to 8 weeks after the course ended.

Cumulative number of infection days was a rate variable, with the number of exposure days as the denominator
and number of suspected infection days as the numerator.

eAppendix 4. Further Details of Statistical Analyses

Descriptive data:
Care home residents’ characteristics and clinical measures were summarized using frequencies and percentages,
means and standard deviations, or medians and interquartile ranges as appropriate. All analyses have been
presented as estimates of treatment effects (adjusted incidence rate ratio, mean differences or odds ratios, as
appropriate), with associated 95% confidence intervals and p-values.

Analysis populations:
All primary and secondary comparative analyses were based primarily on Intention to Treat (ITT) population,
which included all randomized participants who provided outcome data, without imputation of missing values
and regardless of protocol deviations or intervention received.




© 2020 American Medical Association. All rights reserved.
