CALGB 70807

After centrifuging for 10 minutes, allow the centrifuge to come to a complete stop
before opening the cover. Do not use the brake as it may cause the red blood cells to
become re-suspended in the plasma. Any tube containing red blood cells in the
plasma should be re-centrifuged. Immediately return the tubes to the light protection
device (aluminum foil pouch or red or amber bag).
The plasma should be aliquotted into cryovials* within 15 minutes after centrifuging.
All plasma samples will be pipetted as 0.8 mL amounts into the cryogenic storage
vials. Place the samples in the -70qC freezer as soon as possible after aliquotting.
Samples must be frozen at least 2 hours before packing them for shipment. If a -70q
C freezer is not available, the cryovials can be stored in a -20qC freezer immediately
after aliquotting, and then transferred to a -70q C freezer as soon as possible, but for
no longer than 2 days (over the weekend). Placing the samples on wet ice or dry ice
GRHV QRW VXIILFLHQWO\ SUHVHUYH WKH VDPSOH DW OHDVW D -20q C freezer is required.
Samples may NOT be thawed after freezing. See Section 6.2.4 for packing and
shipping instructions.
*

Cryovial Choices: Some examples of acceptable 2.0 ml cryovials are: Nalgene (Cat
#5012-0020), Fisher (Cat #05-669-57), Corning (Cat #430488), VWR (Cat
#16001-102).

6.2.3 Serum samples (required for patients enrolled to substudy 151105)
Throughout all stages of blood processing, shipping, and handling, it is very
important to prevent prolonged exposure of samples and separated blood components
to light. Work quickly and efficiently. When samples and sample components must be
set aside, cover them or put them away from light.
First prepare the vacutainer tubes for protection from light by wrapping aluminum
foil around the tube prior to filling it or putting it in a red or amber colored specimen
bag.
Draw 10 mL of whole blood in a red top tube and gently invert 5 times to mix clot
activator with blood. Let blood clot for 30 minutes. Observe a dense clot. Immediately
replace the tube into the previously prepared aluminum foil slip or place it into the
red or amber colored specimen bag.
Samples should be processed within 30 minutes of collection. If this is not possible,
the tube(s) should be refrigerated until centrifugation. Before centrifugation, make
sure the brake is off, the speed is set between 2,800 – 3,000 rpm, the temperature is
4q to 8q C and the centrifugation time is set at 10 minutes.
Before you start the centrifugation, make sure the brake is off, the speed is set
between 2,800 - 3,000 rpm, the temperature is 4-degrees C to 8-degrees C and the
centrifugation time is set at 10 minutes.
After centrifuging for 10 minutes, allow the centrifuge to come to a complete stop
before opening the cover. Do not use the brake as it may cause the red blood cells to
become re-suspended in the serum. Any tube containing red blood cells in the serum
should be re-centrifuged. Immediately return the tubes to the light protection device
(aluminum foil pouch or red or amber bag).
The serum should be aliquotted into cryovials* within 15 minutes after centrifuging.
All serum samples will be pipetted as 0.8 mL amounts into the cryogenic storage
vials. Place the samples in the -70qC freezer as soon as possible after aliquotting.
Samples must be frozen at least 2 hours before packing them for shipment. If a -70q
C freezer is not available, the cryovials can be stored in a -20qC freezer immediately
after aliquotting, and then transferred to a -70qC freezer as soon as possible, but for
no longer than 2 days (over the weekend). Placing the samples on wet ice or dry ice
GRHV QRW VXIILFLHQWO\ SUHVHUYH WKH VDPSOH DW OHDVW D -20qC freezer is required.
Samples may NOT be thawed after freezing. See Section 6.2.4 for packing and
shipping instructions.
Version Date 09/26/18

Update #10
21

