PICOTS Elements        Inclusion Criteria              Exclusion Criteria
Abbreviations: KQ = key question; PICOTS = populations, interventions, comparators,
outcomes, timing, and settings; RCT = randomized controlled trial

  Searching for the Evidence: Literature Search Strategies for Identification of Relevant
  Studies To Answer the Key Questions - We plan to conduct a comprehensive literature
  search of eight databases, including National Guideline Clearinghouse, Embase, Epub Ahead
  of Print, In-Process & Other Non-Indexed Citations, MEDLINE Daily, MEDLINE, Cochrane
  Central Registrar of Controlled Trials, Ovid Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, and
  Scopus from January 1, 1995 to the present. We have developed a preliminary database
  search strategy (Appendix A) and found that these databases can adequately identify the
  relevant literature. We will use relevant systematic reviews and meta-analysis to identify
  additional existing and new literature. We will also search FDA Establishment Registration
  & Device Listing, ClinicalTrials.gov, Health Canada, Medicines and Healthcare Products
  Regulatory Agency (MHRA), AHRQ’s Horizon Scanning System, conference proceedings,
  patient advocate group websites, and medical society websites. Reference mining of relevant
  publications will be conducted. The search strategy will be peer-reviewed by an independent
  information specialist. An experienced librarian will conduct the search. All citations
  identified through the process will be imported to a reference management system
  (EndNote® Version X7; Thomson Reuters, Philadelphia, PA).

  Independent reviewers, working in pairs, will screen the titles and abstracts of all citations
  using pre-specified inclusion and exclusion criteria. Studies included by either reviewer will
  be retrieved for full-text screening. Independent reviewers, again working in pairs, will
  screen the full-text version of eligible references. Discrepancies between the reviewers will
  be resolved through discussions and consensus. If consensus can’t be reached, a third
  reviewer will resolve the difference. We will use a web-based systematic review software,
  DistillerSR (Evidence Partners Incorporated, Ottawa, Canada), to facilitate study selection
  process.

  Data Abstraction and Data Management - At the beginning of data abstraction, we will
  develop a standardized data extraction form to extract study characteristics (author, study
  design, inclusion and exclusion criteria, patient characteristics, laboratory criteria,
  intervention, comparisons, outcomes, equipment parameters, respiratory services, and related
  items for assessing study quality and applicability). The standardized form will be pilot-
  tested by all study team members using 10 randomly selected studies. We will iteratively
  continue testing the form until no additional items or unresolved questions exist. After we
  finalize the form, reviewers will work independently to extract study details. A second
  reviewer will randomly select studies, review data extraction, and resolve conflicts.
  DistillerSR will also be used to create data extraction forms and facilitate data extraction.

  Assessment of Methodological Risk of Bias of Individual Studies - We will evaluate the
  risk of bias of each included study using predefined criteria. For RCTs, we plan to apply the
  Cochrane Collaboration’s Risk of Bias tool to assess sequence generation; allocation
  concealment; participant, personnel, and outcome assessor blinding; attrition bias;
  incomplete outcome data; selective outcome reporting; and other sources of bias.15 For
