POLAR study . Protocol ANZIC-RC/DJC003 Version 1. Dated Enter 24.04.2009

Power with proportional odds model (secondary analysis)
Assuming a proportional odds cumulative logit model applied to the eight-level GOSE outcome
category vector, a reference improvement with therapy of ln(OR) = 0.62, and a one-sided linear rank
test that the two multinomial populations had equal probabilities versus the alternative that the
treatment population was stochastically larger than the control, this study of 182 evaluable subjects in
each of two treatment groups would have a one-sided power of 96% to detect this magnitude of
reference improvement as statistically significant with type I error (alpha) = 0.05

15.2

Statistical and analytical plan

Independent statisticians at Monash University will perform an intention-to-treat analysis. Baseline
and outcome variables will be compared using Students t-test and Chi-squared test as appropriate.
The favourable – unfavourable neurological outcome dichotomy at six months, quality of life
assessment, proportion of favourable outcomes in survivors and mortality proportions will also be
compared between treatment groups using the stratified Mantel-Haenszel test, and with logistic
regression models adjusting for relevant covariates. Time-to-event analyses will be undertaken using
non-parametric Kaplan-Meier and semi-parametric Cox proportional hazards regression methods. In
addition to the above analyses of binary outcome variables, two further secondary analytic
approaches will be applied to generate secondary outcomes. First, a proportional odds cumulative
logit model, adjusting for relevant covariates, will be applied to the eight-level vector of 6-month
GOSE. Second, the tertiles-of-risk sliding dichotomy approach to the analysis of outcome from severe
TBI will be reported12,46. The latter involves a dichotomisation of the 6-month GOSE for unfavourable
versus favourable outcome differentiated according to each subject’s baseline prognostic risk

15.3

Interim analysis

One planned interim safety analysis will be performed by the independent data and safety monitoring
committee (DSMC) at 50% patient enrolment, using a Haybittle-Peto rule applied to mortality data
between treatment groups and the conventional 3-standard deviation threshold of a standardised
statistic (|Zk=1|≥ 3) calculated from a normal approximation to the discrete binomial difference in
mortality proportions. Assuming no early stopping, such a single interim Haybittle-Peto analysis will
not, in practice, require adjustment (for repeated significance testing) to the conventional statistical
significance level (p<0.05) to be applied at the final analyses of the completed trial.

16.

SAFETY

16.1

Data Safety Management Committee

An independent data safety monitoring committee (DSMC), comprising experts in clinical trials,
biostatistics, emergency medicine and intensive care will be established. The committee will be
charged with monitoring total mortality and serious adverse events and performing the interim analysis

16.2

Adverse events

Adverse events (AEs) are defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a patient or clinical
investigation subject administered an investigational intervention and which does not necessarily have
to have a causal relationship with this treatment (adapted from the Note for Guidance on Clinical
Safety Data Management: Definitions and Standards for Expedited Reporting (CPMP/ICH/377/95 July
2000).
It is recognised that the patient population with severe traumatic brain injury will experience a number
of common aberrations in laboratory values, signs and symptoms due to the severity of the underlying
injury and the impact of standard therapies. These will not necessarily constitute an adverse event
unless they require significant intervention or are considered to be of concern in the investigator’s
clinical judgement.
In all cases, the condition or disease underlying the symptom, sign or laboratory value should be
reported e.g. renal failure rather than hyperkalaemia, and agitation rather than self-extubation.

Page 27 of 50
Confidential

