Youth Advisory Board
Prior to any recruitment of research participant occurs, we will review all of our materials (recruitment ads,
assessments) with adolescents with similar characteristics to our eligible populations (aged 13-17, U.S.
residents, current or former vapers). The members of this youth advisory board will be recruited from our
community partners who work directly with adolescents. No identifying information will be collected from
these youth advisory board members, and they will not receive any intervention. Their role is to provide
feedback on recruitment strategies and data collection procedures.
Data Safety
Respondents will fill out computer-based surveys. All survey data will be stored in a secure Qualtrics
database online. All research studies and their related non-public materials are confidential information.
This includes, but is not limited to, the study title, study questions that are responded to, provided as part
of a study, and any concepts related to those materials. Respondent information will remain confidential.
All data used specifically for this project will be maintained in a manner consistent with NIH standards.
The Principal Investigator (Dr. Amanda Graham), Data Analyst (Dr. Michael Amato), Project Managers
(Sarah Cha, Megan Jacobs), and research assistant (Giselle Edwards) will have access to participants’
identifying information. All study staff will have received certification in human subjects protection from
the NIH Office of Human Subjects Research. Confidentiality of data will be maintained by numerically
coding all data, by disguising identifying information, and by keeping all data electronically protected.
Electronic data files with identifiable information will be maintained separately from other data files and
will only be used for administrative purposes. Identifying information will not be reported. The list of
participant phone numbers, content of text message responses, and documentation of incoming and
outgoing messages will be accessible to study staff through a password protected administrative web page
available only over an encrypted connection (SSL).
Adverse Event Reporting
HHS definition for “adverse events” will be used for this study (https://www.hhs.gov/ohrp/regulations-and-
policy/guidance/reviewing-unanticipated-problems/index.html#AA). Adverse event is defined as any
untoward or unfavorable medical occurrence in a participant, including any abnormal sign, symptom, or
disease temporally associated with participation in the research. A serious adverse event is defined as any
adverse event temporally associated with the subject’s participation in research that: 1) results in death; 2)
is life-threatening; 3) requires inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization; 4) results
in a persistent or significant disability/incapacity; 5) results in congenital anomaly/birth defect; or 6) any
other adverse event that may jeopardize the participant’s health and may require medical or surgical
intervention to prevent one of the other outcomes listed above. Unanticipated problem includes any
incident, experience, or outcomes that is: 1) unexpected given the research procedures and the
characteristics of the subject population being studied; 2) related or possibly related to a subject’s
participation in the research; and 3) suggest that research places subjects or others at a greater risk of harm
related to the research than was previously known or recognized.
Adverse events, serious adverse events, and unanticipated problems are unlikely in this sociobehavioral
only intervention, but any potential events will be reported immediately upon discovery by study staff to
the Principal Investigator who will notify the IRB within 24 hours.
Data and Safety Monitoring Board
A data safety and monitory board (DSMB) has been established prior the submission of this protocol for
IRB review. Members of the Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) are invited by Truth Initiative to
reflect the disciplines necessary to interpret data from the trial. All members of the DSMB are required to
be completely independent of the study and all members are required to sign a DSMB Conflict of Interest
and Confidentiality statement.

                                                        9
