consent process is conducted under minimal stress. Adolescents that meet study eligibility criteria will be
provided information about the study at a 5th grade reading level and required to complete a series of
questions showing decisional capacity before they continue with study enrollment.
Sources of Materials
Sources of research material include the following: 1) screening data, 2) text message utilization
data, and 3) baseline and follow-up assessments. The baseline assessment will be conducted online with the
survey hosted on a secure server. Mixed-mode follow-up (online, phone, text message) will be employed.
Phone surveys will be conducted by research staff blind to treatment condition.
Materials Access
For all data, the Principal Investigator (Dr. Amanda Graham), Data Analysts (Dr. Michael Amato, Anna
Funsten), Project Managers (Sarah Cha, Megan Jacobs), and research assistant (Giselle Edwards) will have
access to individually identifiable information about human subjects. Electronic data files with identifiable
information will be maintained separately from other data files and will only be used for administrative
purposes (e.g., tracking follow-up completion, managing subject payment). All personnel already have or
will have received certification in human subjects protection prior to beginning work on this project.
POTENTIAL RISKS TO SUBJECTS
The overall risk is judged to be very low. Study participants who attempt to quit e-cigarette use will likely
experience some nicotine withdrawal symptoms that may include anxiety, restlessness, anger, irritability,
sadness, and problems concentrating. There is no reason to believe that participation in this study would
worsen nicotine withdrawal symptoms or that symptoms would differ based on randomization assignment.
ADEQUACY OF PROTECTION AGAINST RISKS
Exposure to evidence-based information and support for e-cigarette cessation in the intervention arm is
expected to attenuate withdrawal symptoms associated with e-cigarette cessation that may occur. The
following steps will be taken to ensure adequate understanding of study procedures and full consent.
Step 1 (Study information): Potential participants who click on an online ad for e-cigarette users who are
interested in quitting and willing to participate in a research study will be directed to a website that provide
additional details about the study. This webpage will provide information on who is behind the study, what
participation entails, and who may be eligible for the study. Step 2 (Eligibility screening): Individuals who
are interested in participating will complete a short survey to confirm eligibility for study participation.
Those who are eligible will be asked to provide contact information (e-mail address to send links to surveys
and mobile number for text message sign up). Step 3 (E-mail confirmation): An email message is sent to
the participant with a distinct URL (Web address) containing the baseline survey and instructions to
complete the survey within 24 hours to complete study enrollment. This process ensures that enrolled
participants have a valid email address where they can receive study-related correspondence. Step 4
(Informed consent): When the participant clicks on the URL in the email, it will open up an online baseline
survey. On the first page of the baseline survey, the Informed Consent text will be provided, including a)
each study condition; b) financial incentives for participating; c) the process of randomization and the equal
chance of being assigned to one of three treatment conditions; d) protection of confidentiality and the right
to withdraw at any time; and e) expectations regarding follow-up data collection, including compensation
for time required to complete follow-up assessments (regardless of e-cigarette use status). Users will be
required to select “Yes, I would like to continue” as active affirmation that they are providing consent for
study participation. Contact information for the study and the Institutional Review Board where IRB
approval has been obtained will be included in the Informed Consent form. All information about the study
will be written at a 5th grade reading level to ensure adequate comprehension. Step 5 (Decisional capacity
confirmation): After reading the informed consent, they will be asked to complete an assessment of
decisional capacity and understanding of the informed consent by answering the following 7 questions:

                                                       7
