Measures
All randomized participants in both arms will be asked to complete all assessments. Assessments will occur
at baseline and 1 month and 7 months post-randomization. The baseline survey will be conducted online
and hosted on a secure server. Mixed-mode follow-up (email, phone, text) will be employed. Telephone
surveys will be conducted by research staff blind to treatment. Text messages have demonstrated
moderately high reliability (k=.66) compared with web-based surveys in assessing smoking outcomes13 and
will be used as a final means of gathering abstinence data from non-responders. Most measures listed below
are standard instruments used in cessation studies, and are reliable when administered via the Internet.14,15
  Screening Variables. Individuals located outside the U.S. (as determined by IP address captured by the
survey platform) will be ineligible to participate. To characterize the sample of users interested in the study
and assess study eligibility, we will gather: demographics (age, education, income level, sexual and gender
identity, race, and ethnicity); current e-cigarette use (use of e-cigarette containing nicotine or THC in the
past 30 days)16; interest in quitting; contact information (e-mail and phone number to send baseline survey
to and link text message sign-up data). These questions are being asked during screening so we can
determine whether enrolled participants are representative of the wider population of e-cigarette users.
  Baseline Variables. To characterize the sample and explore potential moderators of treatment
effectiveness, we will gather: additional demographics (student status, employment status); current e-
cigarette use and history (frequency and rate,16,17 age of first use, motivation to quit and quitting history18);
nicotine dependence will be assessed with the Penn State Electronic Cigarette Dependence Index19,
EDS/PROMISE-E,20 the Hooked on Nicotine Checklist,21 and the E-cigarette Fagerström Test of Cigarette
Dependence (e-FTCD)22; other substance use (other tobacco products, alcohol) and mental health
symptoms23; and adverse childhood events.24,25 For co-morbidities and adverse childhood events, we chose
measures that are validated for use among adolescents. In order to minimize risk to participants, we
deliberately avoided measures or deleted questions that assessed sensitive topics such as suicidality. Given
evolving trends of e-cigarette use and perception, we will also ask about perception about harm from e-
cigarettes, reasons for wanting to quit, and reasons for joining the study. To account for potential predictors
of dropout, we will ask about motivation to use or quit e-cigarettes and potential barriers to quitting (e.g.,
social influences). We will assess baseline levels of perceived level of social support,26,27 perceived social
norms, and perceived self-efficacy for quitting and examine changes in these variables as potential
mediators of treatment effectiveness.
   Mediating Variables. We hypothesize that treatment engagement will mediate the relationship between
treatment assignment and abstinence outcomes. We will extract data regarding replies to interactive text
messages (e.g., setting a quit date, keyword use) as well as unsubscribe status, number of days enrolled,
and total number of messages received. All text message interactions are date/time stamped.
   Outcome Measures. The primary outcome is self-reported 30-day point-prevalence abstinence (ppa) at
7-months but we will gather abstinence data at all follow-ups. Other quitting-related outcomes include
change in motivation to quit, quit attempts, reduction in e-cigarette use, 7-day ppa, and continuous
abstinence measured at each follow-up. Intervention satisfaction in both conditions will be measured with
items about overall satisfaction and whether they would recommend it to a friend (scale from 0-10).
Satisfaction with frequency of text messages will be measured.28 To assess perceived message relevance,
participants will be asked whether text messages “were written personally for you”29 and “were directed at
you personally”.30
Data Analysis Plan
  Primary Analysis. Point-prevalence abstinence (ppa) at 7-months post-randomization will be compared
across the treatment and control groups using logistic regression. All estimates will be adjusted for baseline
confounders of the intervention-outcome relationship. We will identify potential moderators (e.g., age,
gender, baseline motivation to quit) by analyzing interactions between treatment and selected variables. For

                                                       5
