What is the purpose of this study?; Do you have to be in this study?; Can you tell me what will happen if
you agree to take part in this study?; How might this study not help you or even hurt you?; How might this
study help you?; What would you do if you wanted to leave the study?; What will happen if you decide not
to be in the study? Correct answers will be required for all 7 questions in order for the potential participant
to move onto the Baseline assessment. Step 6 (Baseline assessment): Users who respond correctly to the
decisional capacity questions will move onto the baseline assessment. Step 7 (Randomization):
Randomization will only occur after an eligible study participant has completed the online enrollment
process (confirmed eligibility, indicated informed consent, passed decisional capacity confirmation, and
completed baseline survey). Step 8 (Text message sign-up): Users will be randomized at the conclusion
of the baseline assessment and provided with a keyword to text based on their assignment. Users must text
their assigned keyword to the provided phone number and reply to the welcome text message to confirm
text message enrollment and finalize their study enrollment. Those who are willing to provide additional
contact methods will be asked to add their social media handle for private messaging at this step (optional).
POTENTIAL BENEFITS OF THE PROPOSED RESEARCH TO HUMAN SUBJECTS AND
OTHERS
Subjects may benefit from participation in this research in several ways. By participating in an e-cigarette
cessation treatment program, subjects may increase the likelihood that they will attempt to quit e-cigarette
use and be successful. Alternatively, participants will gain a greater understanding of their e-cigarette use
behavior that may help them to quit successfully in the future. Finally, although this is not a direct benefit,
all participants will be involved in a project to evaluate innovative treatments for e-cigarette cessation that
may ultimately produce an enormous public health impact. We believe the substantial potential benefits
significantly outweigh the minimal potential risks to research participants.
Payment for participation
There is no payment for study enrollment or completion of the baseline assessment. All participants are
asked to complete follow-up surveys at 1- month and 7-months post-randomization. Participants will be
paid $20 for completing each follow-up survey via the Internet or by phone with a telephone interviewer.
Participants who respond within 24 hours of receiving the initial survey invitation will receive an additional
$10. Participants in the intervention and assessment-only control arms will also be compensated $5 for
each text message assessment (7 total) they respond to, for a total compensation of up to $95 for their entire
study participation. Payment for completing the surveys and the text message assessments will be delivered
via Rybbon, a company specializing in digital gift management for marketing and research. Rybbon is fully
integrated with Qualtrics. When a participant completes an assessment, Rybbon will generate a unique link
for gift card redemption and will email it to the participant. Rybbon has no access to any other identifying
information other than email and no access to assessment data. Participants can redeem their Rybbon gift
card from a variety of gift card options.
IMPORTANCE OF THE KNOWLEDGE TO BE GAINED
This is Quitting is the first text message intervention for e-cigarette cessation designed specifically for
young people. We have seen a high volume of enrollment since the program launched in January 2019 with
only earned media and organic marketing efforts to date. We have been flooded with interest from youth-
serving organizations looking for a proven quit vaping program to offer to their young people. To our
knowledge, this study will be the first to rigorously evaluate a scalable, cost-efficient, market-tested quit
vaping program among adolescents. These data are urgently needed.
DATA AND SAFETY MONITORING PLAN / DATA & SAFETY MONITORING BOARD
Confidentiality will be protected at all times and potential risks will be minimized systematically. The
following measures will be taken specifically to ensure data safety and monitoring.



                                                      8
