among young people. Preliminary evaluation data collected among an initial cohort of roughly 27,000 users
has shown high levels of engagement in the program and high rates of abstinence among responders.9
Roughly ¾ of users set a quit date, with the most common quit date being the day of enrollment. Interactive
keywords were used by 45.5% of teens and 38.4% of YA. Response rates to follow-up assessment questions
were 36.9% at 14 days and 21.0% at 90 days. At 14 days, 60.8% of respondents indicated they had reduced
or stopped using e-cigarettes altogether. At 90 days, 7-day point prevalence abstinence (ppa) was 25% and
30-day ppa was 16%. The high volume of enrollment in a short period of time, high levels of engagement
with the program, and e-cigarette reduction and cessation results demonstrate that young people are
interested in quitting vaping and can be engaged in an easily accessible, anonymous digital platform.
We recently completed an evaluation of This is Quitting with 2,588 young adults aged 18-24. Under an
intention-to-treat analysis with missingness coded as vaping, abstinence rates were 24.1% among
participants assigned to the intervention (This is Quitting) and 18.6% among participants in the assessment
only control arm, a statistically significant difference (Odds Ratio=1.39, 95% CI 1.15-1.68, p< 0.001).10
Building on previous research, the primary aim of the current study is to conduct a comparative
effectiveness trial to evaluate the effectiveness of This is Quitting in promoting abstinence from e-cigarettes
among adolescents aged 13-17. This study is a 2-arm randomized controlled trial conducted among young
users aged 13-17 recruited through online channels. Participants will be randomized to This is Quitting or
an assessment-only control condition and followed for 7 months to roughly correspond to 6-months post-
treatment. The secondary aim is to examine potential mediators of program effectiveness, including
treatment engagement and changes in self-efficacy and perceived social support for quitting.
We will also include a waitlist control arm to evaluate the influence of assessment reactivity and retention
incentives given relatively high quit rates among assessment-only control participants in the previous YA
trial and the dearth of data on adolescent vaping cessation. This arm was not included in sample size
calculations.
The scientific, clinical, and public health communities are desperate for proven, evidence-based cessation
resources to address the vaping epidemic among young people. We are uniquely positioned to address this
urgent need given our extensive experience in conducting large-scale, rigorous research trials of digital
tobacco cessation interventions and our expertise in working with young people. We plan to rapidly
disseminate study results to benefit other researchers/service providers and use these results to further
enhance the program.
METHODS
Subjects
We will randomize 1800 e-cigarette users aged 13-17 years old who are interested in quitting in the next
30 days to the two main intervention arms (900/arm). We will aim to randomize 450 to the waitlist control
arm. Other eligibility criteria include past 30-day e-cigarette use and US residence. To fully enroll in the
study, individuals must text a study-specific phone number and respond to the system-generated message.
Recruitment and Enrollment
Potential participants will respond to online ads on various social media platforms (Facebook, Instagram,
etc.) if they are current e-cigarette users who are interested in quitting and willing to participate in a research
study. Clicking on the ad will lead them to a webpage that provides details about what participation in the
study entails and describes incentives for participation. Those who are interested will complete an eligibility
screener followed by informed consent and a baseline assessment. Those who complete the baseline will
be randomized into one of three arms (see below for additional details) and instructed to text a specific
keyword corresponding to their treatment assignment to the same phone number. Only those who respond
to the first message from the text message program within 24 hours will be fully enrolled into the study.
This requirement will be made explicit.

                                                        3
