all moderators found to be associated with the primary outcome, we will examine the effects of
treatment/moderator interaction terms on outcomes after entering main effects.
   Secondary Analyses. Additional outcomes related to abstinence and treatment engagement will also be
analyzed with logistic regression as secondary analyses. These include likelihood of making a quit attempt,
likelihood of reducing e-cigarette use, and changes in confidence and self-efficacy in quitting e-cigarettes.
   Missing Data. Missing data will be handled in two ways. First, we will conduct an intent-to-treat (ITT)
analysis in which participants who have been lost to follow up are assumed to be treatment failures (i.e.,
vaping). This analysis will be conducted because ITT analyses are common in the smoking cessation
literature, despite simulations demonstrating that the approach is neither conservative nor anti-conservative
but rather biased in favor of whichever condition contains less missingness.31 Second, we will supplement
the ITT analyses with an analysis that uses a multiple imputation (MI) procedure to minimize bias in
estimates and standard errors, under the assumption that outcomes are not missing at random (NMAR) but
rather more likely to be missing for treatment failures (i.e., vaping) than treatment successes (i.e.
abstinence). Since the magnitude of actual response bias is unknown, we will conduct a sensitivity analysis
to evaluate the treatment effect on outcomes under a range of magnitudes, from equal odds of missing
(OR=1) to five times more likely to be missing (OR=5).
  Mediator Analysis. Our conceptual model is that treatment increases
the odds of abstinence by increasing perceived social support and
perceived self-efficacy for quitting. Those two constructs will be
measured at baseline, 1-month and 7-months post-treatment. Change in
those constructs from baseline will be evaluated with separate mediation
analyses as presented in Figure 1. Specifically, we hypothesize that the
effect of treatment on abstinence will be mediated by perceived social
support and perceived self-efficacy, such that: (1) a significant effect A
is found associating X with Z ; (2) a significant effect B is found
associating Z with Y; (3) a significant effect C is found associating X
with Y; and (4) the effect of C is significantly attenuated when A and B
are simultaneously included in the model.
PROTECTION OF HUMAN SUBJECTS
Human Subjects Involvement, Characteristics, and Design
Participants will be 1,800 e-cigarette users aged 13-17 who respond to online advertising about a research
study and who complete enrollment into a text message program based on random allocation. Study
enrollment is conducted entirely online and is fully automated. Randomization occurs after participants
have provided informed consent, passed the decisional capacity check, and completed the baseline survey.
Study enrollment will not be considered complete until the participant responds to the initial system-
generated text message.
We will be recruiting adolescent participants under the age of 18 and we are requesting a waiver of parental
consent. This approach is based on published research with adolescents engaging in high-risk behavior as
well as the American Psychological Association Resolution on Support for the Expansion of Mature
Minors’ Ability to Participant in Research.32 Parents are often unaware of their adolescent’s use of e-
cigarettes and many adolescents hide their e-cigarette use from their parents for fear of punishment and
disapproval, making parental consent a significant barrier to studying e-cigarette use and treatment among
teens. As noted in the APA resolution, requiring parental consent in adolescent research may lead to biased
samples, causing researchers to overestimate or underestimate the scope of health problems in at-risk
populations and leading to findings that is not generalizable to the population of adolescent vapers who
want to quit vaping. Research supports that children as young as 14 years old can provide valid informed
consent similarly to adults when information is presented at developmentally appropriate levels and the

                                                      6
