Randomization
Randomization occurs after completion of the online enrollment process (completed baseline survey). A
computer algorithm that is part of the survey software will automate random allocation.
Interventions
This is Quitting: Participants will be enrolled to receive messages from This is Quitting as described above.
Assessment-only control: After an initial enrollment message, participants will be contacted monthly to
assess e-cigarette use. At the end of the study, participants will receive information about how to sign up
for This is Quitting if they are interested.
Waitlist control: After an initial enrollment message, participants will only be contacted at 1 and 7 months
to complete the follow-up assessments; there will be no other contact via text message. At the end of the
study, participants will receive information about how to sign up for This is Quitting if they are interested.
Potential Problems and Solutions
Loss to follow-up is the primary concern in trials involving digital interventions, especially ones that
employ an assessment only or minimal contact controls. For the treatment and assessment only control
arms, we expect at least 75% follow-up at 1-month and 65% at 7-months based on our previous and ongoing
digital mobile-based evaluations. If follow-up rates are lower than expected early in the trial, we will
consider shortening the 7-month follow-up to gather only abstinence outcomes.
To maximize follow up rates we will:
    1) provide clear information about the study at the outset, including expectations for follow-up;
    2) reimburse participants up to $30 per follow-up assessment;
    3) collect interim abstinence assessments via text ("Retention Messages": $5 incentive for each
       response) for intervention and assessment-only control arms;
    4) send reminders about follow-up surveys via email and text messages;
    5) conduct phone follow-ups for those unreachable by email and text messages;
    6) contact participants via social media private messaging function (if permission given); and,
    7) emphasize the importance of survey completion regardless of abstinence status.
Conducting research online involving incentives carries the potential for fraud and participant deception as
there are often no direct interactions with the participants.11 To prevent fraudulent enrollments and
participation from bots, we will utilize the following features on the Qualtrics survey platform:
    1) Prevent multiple submission: Enabling this option allows Qualtrics to place a cookie on the browser
       the first time someone takes the survey. The user will be flagged as duplicate if they come back to
       take the survey from the same browser and device without having cleared their cookies.
    2) Bot detection: Enabling bot detection flags responses that are likely completed by bots by assigning
       a score to each response. This feature uses Google’s invisible reCaptcha technology to assign a
       score to each response, with a score of less than 0.5 meaning that the respondent is likely a bot.
    3) Relevant ID: This feature analyzes a user’s browser, operating system, and location to calculate a
       fraud score that indicates whether the respondent is attempting to take the survey multiple times.
We also require a valid email address for completion of the baseline survey (users must click on a survey
link in their email to launch the baseline and complete enrollment), which has been shown to prevent bots.12
We will monitor emails and phone numbers used to enroll in the study on a daily basis and exclude any
duplicates. We anticipate these measures will prevent the majority of any potentially fraudulent enrollments.

                                                      4
