BACKGROUND
The popularity of electronic cigarettes (or e-cigarettes) has grown exponentially over the past few years,
with the surgeon general calling the use of e-cigarettes among young people an “epidemic”.1 E-cigarettes
are now the most commonly used tobacco product among youth, and youth and young adults are more
likely than adults to use e-cigarettes in the U.S. Many younger e-cigarette users have never used another
tobacco product. Among current e-cigarette users aged 45 years and older in 2015, most were either current
or former regular cigarette smokers, whereas, among current e-cigarette users aged 18-24 years, 40.0% had
never been regular cigarette smokers.2 E-cigarette use has grown even faster in recent years due to the
popularity of products such as JUUL, a small-USB like e-cigarette with high nicotine content that is easy
to conceal. Between 2016 and 2019, use of e-cigarettes more than doubled among American high school
students (from 11.3% to 27.5%) and middle school students (from 4.3% to 10.5%).3
Young people should never use nicotine in any form. While there is some evidence that e-cigarettes are less
harmful than traditional cigarettes, they are not harmless and early exposure to nicotine can have long-
lasting adverse effects. The majority of e-cigarettes contain nicotine, which has known health effects on
brain development which occurs into the mid-20s. Specific risks include nicotine addiction, mood disorders,
permanent lowering of impulse control, as well as negative impacts on attention and learning. The aerosol
produced by e-cigarettes contains cancer-causing chemicals and tiny particles that reach deep into the lungs.
E-cigarettes have also produced unintended injuries such as fires and explosions from defective batteries
and poisonings from acute nicotine exposure through e-cigarette liquids. Finally, there is strong evidence
that e-cigarette use can lead to the use of other tobacco products such as cigarettes.4,5 Reversing the dramatic
gains over the past decade in reducing cigarette smoking among young people would be nothing short of a
public health tragedy.
In response to this epidemic and given no available quitting resources for young people (cessation resources
such as medication have no demonstrated effectiveness for young people6,7), Truth Initiative launched a
first-of-its kind e-cigarette cessation program designed specifically for young people in January 2019. The
program is called This is Quitting and it is delivered entirely via text message. Mobile phone ownership is
ubiquitous among young people and text messaging is a preferred communication modality in this age
group. Text messaging is also easy to use, discreet, anonymous, and there is strong evidence supporting its
effectiveness as a cessation intervention modality.8 This is Quitting was developed using best practices from
smoking cessation research with young people, our extensive experience delivering digital tobacco
cessation interventions to people of all ages, as well as formative research with young e-cigarette users and
quitters.
Young people enroll by texting “DITCHVAPE” to a short code and responding to the initial message with
their age and first name (used for tailoring the program). Terms of Service and Privacy Policy are provided
via a link in a text message. Users receive one age-appropriate message per day tailored to their enrollment
date or quit date, which can be set and reset via text message. Those not ready to quit receive 4 weeks of
messages focused on building skills and confidence. Those who set a quit date receive messages for a week
before and 8 weeks afterward that include encouragement and support, skill- and self-efficacy building
exercises, coping strategies, and information about the risks of vaping, benefits of quitting, and cutting
down to quit. Keywords COPE, STRESS, SLIP, and MORE provide on-demand support. Sample text
messages can be found at the end of this protocol. Users can unsubscribe by texting STOP. E-cigarette use
and abstinence are assessed via text message at 14, 30, 60, and 90 days following an enrollee’s quit date or
enrollment date. At 14 days, enrollees are asked, “Have you cut down how much you vape in the past 2
weeks? Respond w/letter: A=I still vape the same amount, B=I vape less, C=I don’t JUUL at all anymore.”
At 30, 60, and 90 days, enrollees are asked, “When was the last time you vaped, even a puff of someone
else’s? Respond w/ letter: A: in the past 7 days, B: 8–30 days ago, C: More than 30 days ago.”
As of July 27, 2021, over 350,000 young people have enrolled, including over 130,000 adolescents aged
13-17, demonstrating the appeal of this treatment approach and the urgent need for quit vaping resources

                                                       2
