The DSMB is responsible for safeguarding the interests of study participants, assessing the safety and
efficacy of study procedures, and for monitoring the overall conduct of the study. The DSMB is an
independent advisory group to Truth Initiative, and is expected to provide recommendations about starting,
continuing, and stopping the study. In addition, the DSMB is asked to make recommendations, as
appropriate, to Truth Initiative about:
    •   Selection, recruitment, and retention of participants
    •   Completeness, quality, and analysis of measurements
    •   Participant safety
    •   Adherence to protocol requirements
    •   Efficacy of the study intervention
    •   Benefit/risk ratio of procedures and participant burden, and
    •   Amendments to the study protocol and consent forms
DSMB meetings will be held via remote connections. The purpose of the first meeting is to review and
discuss the DSMB Charter, to provide an overview of study activities, to review and make recommendations
about the protocol, and to determine the frequency of interim analyses and whether data will or will not be
masked to identity of randomized groups. Enrollment in the study will not begin until the DSMB’s Charter
has been accepted by the DSMB members, and IRB approval has been obtained.
Meetings will be held approximately once a month prior to study launch, with additional meetings or
conference calls scheduled as needed. Before each meeting, when the agenda is sent out, Truth Initiative
staff will ask all DSMB members to state whether they have developed any new conflicts of interest since
the last meeting. If a new conflict is reported, the Chair and other members will determine if the conflict
limits the ability of the DSMB member to participate in the discussion. The DSMB also will review adverse
event data, other safety data, enrollment data, and quality and completeness of study data at each meeting
to ensure proper trial conduct. At intervals, as noted above, the DSMB will also review formal interim
analyses of the primary end point. It is expected that all DSMB members will attend every meeting and
call. However, it is recognized that this may not always be possible. Quorum for voting is considered to be
half the number of standing members plus one. The Board may wish to decide if particular expertise is
needed within the quorum for the meeting to be valid. All standing Monitoring Board members are voting
members. A quorum of this DSMB is considered to be: Three (3).
Communication with DSMB members will be primarily through the principal investigator (PI, Amanda
Graham, PhD) and the research director (Sarah Cha, MSPH). We will use project management software
(Basecamp) and cloud-based file storage (Dropbox) to facilitate communications, track feedback, circulate
meeting agendas, and document meeting minutes. The DSMB will have a Chair who will lead the discussion
at each meeting. Truth Initiative staff will prepare summary of DSMB meeting minutes for review by full
DSMB board following each meeting.
At the first meeting, review of the study protocol will include review of the statistical analysis plan. The
DSMB should discuss the adequacy of that plan. The final plan, whether part of a research protocol or
separate document, will be maintained as an appendix to this charter. The DSMB should discuss the
statistical monitoring procedures they propose to follow to guide their recommendations about termination
or continuation of the trial. These procedures could include guidelines for early termination for benefit,
termination for futility, and termination for safety reasons.
Regulatory and Ethical Considerations
This study targets health topic that is currently receiving significant media and regulatory attention (e-
cigarette use). We do not anticipate any regulatory changes that may occur during the study period to impact
study conduct as our study is aimed at evaluating a cessation program for a product that may become less
                                                     10
