eAppendix A. Additional Detail About Study Methods

1.     Additional Detail About This is Quitting

This is Quitting provides tips and information about quitting for people across the motivational continuum (users do not have to set a
quit date) and across levels of nicotine vaping intensity. The program is individually tailored on several dimensions including participant
age, enrollment date, quit date (optional), and the user's primary nicotine device (e.g., Puff Bar). Users receive messages for 1 week
preceding their quit date and 8 weeks afterward. One to three messages are sent daily until around Day 30 after their quit date, when
message frequency decreases to roughly once every other day. Those who do not set a quit date receive 1 to 3 daily messages for 4
weeks focused on building skills and confidence. Roughly a third of messages are interactive (e.g., true/false, multiple choice, free
response questions) and ask about things like confidence to quit, program helpfulness, and vaping behavior (see table below).

This is Quitting is positioned as a nonjudgmental, supportive friend. It is grounded in key constructs from social cognitive theory. For
example, to establish and reinforce perceived social norms and social support for quitting, many messages are written by other users
(edited by staff where appropriate). These messages reference the author and convey that many other young people are also quitting
(e.g., “Ashley says, ‘You can do it we are all in this together.’ You're not the only one who’s thought about quitting.”). To support
observational learning, messages include quitting strategies from other young people (e.g., “Dalton says, ‘Remember that stress can be
dealt with in other ways! Try meditating or even writing down what the problem is and then figure out solutions.’ You dealt with hard
things before you started to vape, and you still can.”). To grow behavioral capability, messages give concrete, evidence-based skills and
strategies (e.g., “Have your friends supported your quitting? Reply YES or NO.” If user responds NO, “Practice—like actually say out
loud in front of a mirror at home or in your car—how you’ll turn down a JUUL if they offer it to you.”). Messages about nicotine
replacement therapy describe its use and effectiveness for quitting but that it would need to be prescribed by a healthcare provider.
Texting keywords such as COPE, TIPS, FEELS, and STRESS delivers on-demand support around cravings/withdrawal, advice,
inspiration, and stress management. Sample text messages are included below as illustrative examples.

Different intervention modalities offer different benefits and value propositions to participants. As a text message intervention, This is
Quitting is confidential and relatively anonymous. Participants need not disclose their quitting progress to others, and they can choose
to share as much or as little as they want about themselves with the program. This is Quitting is also a private experience, where
participants get the benefit of advice from other experienced quitters without being required to interact with anyone else while still being
able to interact with the program and use it on-demand for support. Text messaging is free, can be used without internet access, and is
universally used by young people. Social media-based interventions, by contrast, meet participants organically “where they are” but
may require participants to disclose more about themselves than is comfortable, force social interactions with relative strangers, and
require consistent internet or smartphone access that may reinforce disparities.

     Message type        Sample text messages from This is Quitting
     Encourage and       Michelle L. says "I have always told myself that quitting is impossible, but it's not. Each day is brand new
     support             and is another accomplishment." No matter how much you use your vape, it's definitely possible to quit.
                         Experts suggest you make tomorrow a practice day: test out how quitting goes, to see what works and what
                         doesn't. If it doesn't go smoothly, that's ok! You're learning how to do this.
     Skill- and self-    AnnetteMM says "Gather preparation supplies ahead of time. I bought twizzlers and tootsie pops." Tell me
     efficacy building   what you're going to do to keep your mind/hands busy instead of a vape next week.
     exercises
     Coping strategies   LizzieG says "Breathe slowly through each craving consciously; knowing you are stronger with every
                         breath." Google "healthy ways to handle stress" if you're needing other ways to deal. Or reply COPE
                         anytime.
     Risks of vaping     Pam loves to walk and hike, and her [device] felt like it got her heart racing or she felt nervous. Quitting
                         will help you feel like the best version of you.
     Benefits of         Brittany suggests keeping track of how much money you used to spend on your [device] so you can see
     quitting            what you're saving. Makes you feel rich!
     COPE                Esirelda says "Reach out for support. My friends & closest family members made a huge impact with
                         supporting me throughout my journey of quitting."
     STRESS              Chase says "It's alright take it a few minutes at a time if you are stressed remember it only last a few
                         minutes at a time"
     SLIP                Zander says "It’s ok to slip up sometimes, the important part thing is that you try again. For most people it
                         can take a couple tries, so don’t lose hope!

© 2024 American Medical Association. All rights reserved.
