     FEELS                Montana says "Quitting is one of the best decisions I have ever made. It's hard, but it's necessary. Quit for
                          YOU and for the people who love having you around."
     TIPS                 Jayden says "a helpful tip is to write down a new reason to quit every day, like family, health, or just for
                          yourself."
     Vaping behavior       Checking in: Have you cut down how much you vape in the past 2 weeks? Respond w/letter: A=I still vape
     (Day 14)              the same amount, B=I vape less, C=I don't vape at all anymore.
     Vaping behavior       How's the quit going? When was the last time you hit a JUUL, or any e-cigarette/vape device, even a puff of
     (Days 30, 60, 90)     someone else's? Respond w/ letter: A= in the past 7 days, B= 8-30 days ago, C= More than 30 days ago.
     Confidence           How confident are you feeling about being able to quit? Reply TOTALLY, SOSO or MEH.


     Helpfulness          How helpful have these texts been? Reply with a number 1-10, where 10 is the best.



2.    Baseline Assessment

All data were collected via self-report. Demographic characteristics, nicotine/e-cigarette dependence, psychosocial characteristics, and
other substance use were collected to characterize the study sample and to examine as potential moderators of the treatment-outcome
relationship. Demographic questions were drawn from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's National Youth Tobacco Survey
(NYTS) 2020 and administered as below.

      •     Grade: What grade are you in?
                o Fixed choice response options (6th, 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, 11th, 12th, >12th grade (community college or university), Ungraded
                     or other grade, Not a student)
      •     Gender: Which of the following best describes you?
                o Fixed choice response options (Male, Female, Non-binary, Other, Prefer not to say)
      •     Race: What race or races do you consider yourself to be? Select one or more.
                o Fixed choice response options (American Indian or Alaska Native, Asian, Black or African American, Native
                     Hawaiian/Other Pacific Islander, White, Other, Prefer not to say)
      •     Ethnicity: Are you Hispanic, Latino/a, or Spanish origin?
                o Fixed choice response options (Yes, No, Prefer not to say)
      •     Sexual orientation: Which of the following best describes you?
                o Fixed choice response options (Straight, Gay or lesbian, Bisexual, Other, Prefer not to say)

            Sexual orientation was assessed given its clinical relevance in this study. Sexual minorities have used tobacco at higher rates
            than their heterosexual counterparts for years. In 2021, lesbian, gay, and bisexual (LGB) young people reported current vaping
            at higher rates than their heterosexual peers (19.8% vs. 13.2%). Between 2020 and 2021, the difference between LGB and
            heterosexual young people who currently vape increased by 32%, and those who had ever tried e-cigarettes increased by 26%.1
            Gender- and sexuality-based harassment has been linked to increased e-cigarette use among LGBT high school students.2 Use
            of mentholated tobacco products is common in the LGBT community, which increases nicotine addiction levels and difficulty
            in quitting. The development and testing of tobacco cessation interventions for marginalized communities - including those
            who identify as LGBTQ+ - is a public health priority and a health equity issue.




© 2024 American Medical Association. All rights reserved.
