For interventional research involving the human body and involving a medical device or an in
vitro diagnostic medical device, the AP-HP, as sponsor, obtains a favorable approval from the
relevant ethical review board prior to implementation, within the scope of its competence and
in accordance with the legislative and regulatory provisions in force.


15.3 Application for ANSM authorization

For interventional research involving the human body and involving a medical device or an in
vitro diagnostic medical device, the AP-HP, as sponsor, obtains prior authorization from the
ANSM, within the scope of its competence and in accordance with the legislative and regulatory
provisions in force.


15.4 Information technology and civil liberties
The computer file used for this research is implemented in accordance with French (amended
Data Protection Act) and European (General Data Protection Regulation -RGPD).
- Commitment to comply with MR 001 “Reference Methodology”
This research falls within the scope of the "Reference Methodology for the Processing of
Personal Data Implemented in the Context of Healthcare Research" (MR-001 modified). AP-
HP, the research sponsor, has signed a commitment to comply with this "Reference
Methodology".


15.5 Research modifications

Any substantial modification made to the protocol by the coordinating investigator must be
transmitted to the sponsor for approval. Once approved, the sponsor must obtain a favorable
approval from the ethical review board and authorization from ANSM, within their respective
areas of competence.
The information note and consent form may be revised if necessary, particularly in the event of
substantial changes to the research or the occurrence of adverse effects.


15.6 Final research report

The final report on interventional research involving the human body, mentioned in article
R1123-60 of the French public health code, is drawn up and signed by the sponsor and the
investigator. A summary of the report, drawn up in accordance with the competent authority's


                                                                                                       57/63

                                 EMPROTECT protocol version 1.1 of 06/01/2020
               This document is the property of DRCI / APHP. Any reproduction is strictly forbidden.
