patient to account for intra-patient variability. This model will include as parameters the
randomization arm, the visit as class and the visit*randomization arm interaction. The
interaction terms will be used to determine whether there is a difference between the two study
arms at one month, or 6 months.
Mortality at 1 and 6 months, cumulative hospital stay at 6 months, rate of re-intervention for
recurrence of cSDH during the 6-month period, and complication rate will also be compared
between the experimental group (MMA embolization) and the control group (standard care).
Quantitative endpoints will be compared using Student's t-tests (or non-parametric Wilcoxon
test in case of non-normal distribution). Qualitative criteria will be analyzed using the Chi-2
test (or Fisher's exact test if appropriate).


Adverse events observed at 1 and 6 months will be described globally and by treatment group,
in terms of number, frequency and percentage of patients concerned. Serious adverse events
will be described separately.


12.2 Assumptions for calculating the number of subjects required and results

To demonstrate a reduction in the recurrence rate from 15% (control group) to 5% (embolized
group) with 80% power, and ensuring an overall bilateral alpha risk of 5%,
142 patients per group are required. This number was estimated by taking into account the 2
sequential tests planned according to the method of Lan and Demets with an O'Brien & Fleming
alpha risk expenditure function (interim analysis after inclusion and end of follow-up of 129
patients (information fraction of 37.5%) at nominal threshold alpha=0.001 and final analysis at
threshold alpha=0.05). Assuming a lost-to-follow-up rate of 20%, a total of 342 patients (171
per group) is required.


12.3 Expected statistical significance

All analyses will be performed at 5% two-sided alpha risk (with the exception of the interim
analysis performed at the nominal threshold of 0.001 from 129 patients).


12.4 Statistical criteria for discontinuing research.

An interim analysis is planned after inclusion and end of follow-up of 129 patients for this
study. Inclusion may be stopped after completion of this analysis in the event of a difference


                                                                                                        50/63

                                  EMPROTECT protocol version 1.1 of 06/01/2020
                This document is the property of DRCI / APHP. Any reproduction is strictly forbidden.
