necessary for such control, in accordance with the legislative and regulatory provisions in force
(articles L.1121-3 and R.5121-13 of the French Public Health Code).

11.3.2 Source documents :

Source documents are defined as any original document or object that can be used to prove the
existence or accuracy of data or facts recorded during the course of the research, and will be
kept by the investigator, or by the hospital in the case of hospital medical records, in accordance
with current regulations.
Source documents :
- Medical file
- Hospitalization reports, consultation reports and correspondence
- Intervention reports
- Imaging test reports
- Biological and anatomopathological test results
- Imaging data in DICOM format

11.3.3 Data confidentiality :

Those responsible for quality control in research involving the human body (article L.1121-3
of the French Public Health Code), will take all necessary precautions to ensure the
confidentiality of information relating to the research, to the persons involved, and in particular
to their identity, and to the results obtained.
These people, like the investigators themselves, are bound by professional secrecy (under the
conditions defined by articles 226-13 and 226-14 of the French penal code).
During or at the end of research involving the human person, data collected on subjects and
transmitted to the sponsor by the investigators (or any other specialist) will be rendered nonidentifying.
Under no circumstances may the names or addresses of the persons concerned appear in clear
text.
Only the initials of the surname and first name will be recorded, together with a coded number
specific to the research indicating the order of inclusion of subjects.
The sponsor will ensure that each person taking part in the research has given his or her written
consent for access to individual data concerning him or her and strictly necessary for the quality
control of the research.

46/63
EMPROTECT protocol version 1.1 of 06/01/2020

This document is the property of DRCI / APHP. Any reproduction is strictly forbidden.

