An audit may be carried out at any time by persons mandated by the sponsor and independent
of those in charge of the research. Its purpose is to ensure the quality of the research, the validity
of its results and compliance with the law and regulations in force.


The persons directing and supervising the research agree to comply with the requirements of
the sponsor and the competent authority with regard to an audit or inspection of the research.


The audit can be applied to all stages of research, from protocol development to publication of
results, and to the classification of data used or produced as part of the research.


13.6 Responsibilities of the Principal Investigator

Before starting the research, each investigator will provide the research sponsor's representative
with an updated, dated and signed personal curriculum vitae, including his/her RPPS number.
The CV should include previous research participation and training related to clinical research.


Each investigator undertakes to respect the obligations of the law and to conduct the research
in accordance with G.P.C., respecting the terms of the Declaration of Helsinki in force.


The principal investigator at each participating center will sign an undertaking of responsibility
(standard DRCI document), which will be given to the sponsor's representative.
The investigators and their collaborators will sign a delegation of functions form specifying
each person's role.

14 ETHICAL AND LEGAL ASPECTS

14.1 Information and consent procedures for research subjects



Who is informed? The participant, or if applicable: family members/trusted third party.
Who gives consent? The patient, or a close family member/trusted support person if the patient
is unable to give consent.
When is it done? At the screening visit, within 7 days of cSDH evacuation surgery, during the
same hospitalization.
How is this done? An information note is given to the participant or a family member/trusted
third party, and verbal information is provided.

                                                                                                       54/63

                                 EMPROTECT protocol version 1.1 of 06/01/2020
               This document is the property of DRCI / APHP. Any reproduction is strictly forbidden.
