       - device management.


13.3 Observation notebook

The eCRF should contain only the data required for analysis with a view to publication. All
data relating to the subject and necessary for his/her follow-up during and outside the research
will be collated in his/her medical file.


Electronic CRF :
All information required by the protocol must be recorded in the CRF. Data should be collected
as they are obtained, and recorded explicitly in these CRFs. Any missing data should be coded.
This electronic case report form will be set up in each center using an Internet data collection
medium. Investigators will be provided with a document to help them using this tool.
If the investigator fills in the case report form via the Internet, the CRA can view the data
quickly and remotely. The investigator is responsible for the accuracy, quality and relevance of
all data entered. In addition, when data is entered, it is immediately checked for consistency.
As such, he/she must validate any value modification in the CRF. These modifications are
subject to an audit trail. A justification may be included as a comment.
A paper printout will be requested at the end of the study, authenticated (dated and signed) by
the investigator. The investigator must keep a copy of the authenticated document for the
sponsor.


13.4 Non-conformity management

Any event arising from non-compliance with the protocol, standard operating procedures, good
clinical practice or applicable laws and regulations by an investigator or any other person
involved in the conduct of research must be reported as a non-conformity to the sponsor.


These non-conformities will be managed in accordance with the sponsor's procedures.


13.5 Audits / inspections

Investigators agree to accept quality assurance audits by the sponsor and inspections by
competent authorities. All data, documents and reports are subject to regulatory audits and
inspections without prejudice to medical confidentiality.


                                                                                                       53/63

                                 EMPROTECT protocol version 1.1 of 06/01/2020
               This document is the property of DRCI / APHP. Any reproduction is strictly forbidden.
