medical devices (ANSM), a new fact is defined as any new data that may lead to a reassessment
of the benefit/risk ratio of the research or of the investigational product, to changes in the use
of this product, in the conduct of the research, or in the documents relating to the research, or
to the suspension, interruption or modification of the research protocol or similar research. For
trials involving the first administration or use of a health product in people with no medical
condition: any serious adverse reaction.


The sponsor informs the competent authority and the ethical review board (comité de protection
des personnes) without delay of new facts and, where appropriate, of measures taken, as from
the day on which he becomes aware of them.
Following the initial declaration of a new fact, the sponsor sends the competent authorities, in
the form of a follow-up report on the new fact, any relevant additional information relating to
this new fact within a maximum of 15 days from the time when this information becomes
available.




10.3.3 Annual safety report

The sponsor must draw up an annual safety report (ASR) once a year for the duration of the
clinical trial, including in particular :
- an analysis of the safety of research subjects,
- a list of all suspected serious adverse events and a list of serious adverse events that may be
linked to the medical device implementation procedure, occurring during the period covered by
the report,
- summary tables of all serious adverse events that have occurred since the start of the study.
The report is sent within 60 days of the anniversary date corresponding to the date of the first
patient included in the research.


10.4 Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB)

The DSMB can be set up by the sponsor. Its main mission is to monitor safety data. It may have
additional missions, such as monitoring efficacy data (particularly if the protocol provides for
interim analyses).
It is up to the sponsor to justify to the competent authority (ANSM) and to the ethical review
board whether or not such a committee has been set up.

                                                                                                        44/63

                                  EMPROTECT protocol version 1.1 of 06/01/2020
                This document is the property of DRCI / APHP. Any reproduction is strictly forbidden.
