11.5 Ownership of data

The AP-HP is the owner of the data and no use or transmission to a third party may be made
without its prior agreement.
12 STATISTICAL ASPECTS
12.1 Description of planned statistical methods, including schedule of planned interim
analyses

A patient flow diagram will be drawn up to describe the number of eligible patients and the
number of patients actually included and randomized in total and in each of the two arms, as
well as patient follow-up (number of patients lost to follow-up per arm). This diagram will also
show the number of patients analyzed in each arm.

For each group and each evaluation date, qualitative variables will be described by their
number, percentage and missing data per response modality, and quantitative variables by their
number, mean and standard deviation. Quantitative variables not normally distributed will be
presented with their median and interquartile range (1st quartile-3e quartile).
Analysis of primary endpoint
The primary endpoint will be analyzed sequentially in 2 stages: in an interim analysis planned
at the end of the 6-month follow-up of 129 included patients (37.5%), approximately 15 months
after the start of inclusions (9 months of inclusion + 6 months of follow-up), and at the end of
the study (at the end of follow-up of the last included patient, data collection and control). This
sequential analysis is based on a 2-stage Lan & DeMets approach with an O'Brien & Fleming
alpha risk expenditure function.

For the interim analysis, all patients randomized and for whom recurrence status at 6 months
could be recovered will be analyzed, in their initially allocated randomization group. Patients
who died without recurrence will be considered failures. Recurrences of cSDH by group will
be analyzed using a mixed logistic model adjusted for randomization stratification factors.
Randomization group, anticoagulant/antiplatelet use and uni or bilateral cSDH will be included
as fixed effects, and center will be introduced as a random effect. In the event of model nonconvergence, a Mantel-Haensel test (adjusted for center and, if possible, other randomization
stratification factors) will be used.

48/63
EMPROTECT protocol version 1.1 of 06/01/2020

This document is the property of DRCI / APHP. Any reproduction is strictly forbidden.

