- if unable to connect to e-CRF, the investigator completes, signs and sends the SAE notification
form to the Vigilance department. As soon as the connection is re-established, the investigator
will fill it in the e-CRF form.

The investigator must respond to any request for additional information from the sponsor.
For any questions about reporting an adverse event, it is possible to contact the Vigilance Sector
by e-mail: vigilance.drc@aphp.fr.

In the event of in utero exposure, the investigator completes the "Pregnancy notification and
follow-up form".
The investigator must follow the pregnant woman until the end of the pregnancy or its
termination and notify the sponsor of the outcome with this form.
If the outcome of the pregnancy falls within the definition of serious adverse events
(spontaneous abortion, termination of pregnancy, fetal death, congenital anomaly, etc.), the
investigator must follow the procedures for reporting serious adverse events.
Initial pregnancy notification, SAE follow-up reports and any other documents will be sent to
the sponsor in the same way as above.

10.3 The sponsor's role

The sponsor, represented by its Vigilance department, assesses the safety of each investigational
medical

device

and/or

its

implementation

procedure

and/or

the

specific

acts/procedures/examinations added by the research and with any other treatments, on an
ongoing basis, throughout the research.

10.3.1 Analysis and reporting of serious adverse events

The sponsor evaluates :
- the severity of all adverse events reported,
- their causal link with each investigational medical device and/or its implementation procedure
and/or specific acts/procedures/examinations added by the research and with any other
treatments,
- all serious adverse events for which the investigator and/or sponsor consider that a causal
relationship with the investigational medical device and/or its implementation procedure and/or

40/63
EMPROTECT protocol version 1.1 of 06/01/2020

This document is the property of DRCI / APHP. Any reproduction is strictly forbidden.

