The Sponsor, for the entire duration of the research, takes out insurance covering its own civil
liability as well as that of any physician involved in carrying out the research. It also guarantees
full compensation for the harmful consequences of the research for the person taking part and
his or her beneficiaries, unless it can prove that the damage is not attributable to its own fault
or to that of any other party involved, without being able to invoke the act of a third party or
the voluntary withdrawal of the person who had initially agreed to take part in the research.


Assistance Publique- Hôpitaux de Paris (AP-HP) has taken out an insurance policy with HDI-
GERLING through BIOMEDIC-INSURE for the entire duration of the research, covering its
civil liability as well as that of all participants (physicians or personnel involved in the research),
in accordance with article L.1121-10 of the French public health code.



17 PUBLICATION RULES

17.1 Mention of AP-HP affiliation for projects promoted by AP-HP

- If an author has several affiliations, the order in which the institutions are cited (AP-HP,
University, INSERM...) is irrelevant.
- Each of these affiliations must be identified by an address separated by a semicolon (;).
- The institution AP-HP must appear under the acronym "AP-HP" first in the address followed
precisely by : AP-HP, hospital, department, city, zip code, France


17.2 Mention of the AP-HP sponsor (DRCI) in the manuscript acknowledgments

"The sponsor was Assistance Publique - Hôpitaux de Paris (Délégation à la Recherche Clinique
et à l'Innovation)"


17.3 Mention of the funder in the manuscript acknowledgments

Concerning a PHRC: "The study was funded by a grant from Programme Hospitalier de
Recherche Clinique - PHRC 2018 (Ministry of Health)".


This search will be registered on http://clinicaltrials.gov/ (add the registration number when the
search is registered).




                                                                                                        59/63

                                  EMPROTECT protocol version 1.1 of 06/01/2020
                This document is the property of DRCI / APHP. Any reproduction is strictly forbidden.
