In the event of an early stopping decision following this interim analysis, due to rejection of the
hypothesis of equality of cSDH recurrence rates between the two groups at the nominal
threshold of alpha=0.001, the final main analysis will include the patients analyzed leading to
the stopping decision, as well as all patients for whom the primary endpoint could be collected
subsequently (over-running patients). Similarly, included patients who had already undergone
embolization will continue to be followed up until M6, and will be included in the final analysis.


During the interim analysis, conditional power estimates will also be made. If the conditional
power is deemed to be too low, the project may be discontinued on grounds of futility, after
consultation with the DSMB.


In the final primary analysis, the primary endpoint, cSDH recurrence rate, will be analyzed in
the intention-to-treat population using a mixed logistic model adjusted for randomization
stratification factors. Randomization group, anticoagulant/antiplatelet medication use and uni
or bilateral cSDH distribution will be included as fixed effects, while center will be introduced
as a random effect (to take into account the multicenter nature of the study).
In the event of model non-convergence, a Mantel-Haensel test (adjusted for center and, if
possible, other randomization stratification factors) will be used. Patients who die without
recurrence will be considered as failures.


The low significance level chosen for the interim analysis during the study leads to a virtual
absence of alpha risk inflation; the final analysis will therefore be carried out at the conventional
0.05 level, despite the interim analysis.


A sensitivity analysis will be performed to exclude patients who did not benefit from
embolization in the experimental arm after CT angiography.


Two subgroup analyses will be carried out according to the uni or bilateral nature of cSDH and
the use of anticoagulants/antiplatelet medication.


Analysis of secondary endpoints
The proportion of dependent patients at 1 and 6 months (Rankin score≥4) will be compared
between the two arms of the study using a GEE logistic model, with a cluster effect on the

                                                                                                       49/63

                                 EMPROTECT protocol version 1.1 of 06/01/2020
               This document is the property of DRCI / APHP. Any reproduction is strictly forbidden.
