© 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data mining,
AI training, and similar technologies.
The e mbolization procedure was initially performed under local anesthesia or conscious
sedation. Starting from June 10, 2020 (second amendment of the protocol), embolization
could also be performed under general anesthesia if necessary. Via a femoral or radial access,
the external carotid artery was catheterized with a regular 5F or 6F guiding catheter. Then t he
MMA was catheterized with a Progreat 2.4 (Terumo, Shibuya, Tokyo) microcatheter in a coaxial fashion above the foramen spinosum and embolized by free-flow injection of 300 -500
μm EmboSphere (Merit Medical, South Jordan, UT, USA) triascryl gelatin microspheric
(TAGM) particles. We chose 300 -500 μm TAGM calibrated microspheres as the embolic
agent because of previously reported non -randomized data suggesting a potential benefit. 6
This choice was also guided by safety concerns because these particles are not expected to
penetrate the meningeal anastomotic arteries, which have been reported to be 50 to 300 μm in
diameter, thus mitigating the potential risk for non -target embolization. 1,7 If the selective
MMA angiogram showed a dangerous anastomosis (an arterial anastomosis exposing to a risk
of non -target embolic agent migration towards an eloquent structure such as the eye) , the
artery was embolized downstream of the anastomosis with a safety margin or the anastomosis
was occluded using Optima coils (Balt, Montmorency, France) delivered via a Vasco 10
(Balt) microcatheter. Technically, MMA embolization aimed to occlude both anterior and
posterior MMA branches. This was achieved by injection from the common trunk or selective
catheterization of each individual branch. Patients with a unilateral CSDH underwent
embolization homolaterally to the CSDH. Patients with a bilateral CSDH underwent bilateral
embolization. Patients who had unilateral surgery for a bilateral CSDH (i.e., if the CSDH was
not compressive on one side and did not require surgery) underwent unilateral embolization
on the same side as the surgery. In the specific setting in which a patient had bilateral surgery
for a bilateral CSDH, then the CSDH recurred unilaterally and had unilateral surgery for this
