PARTNERS HUMAN RESEARCH COMMITTEE
PROTOCOL SUMMARY
Answer all questions accurately and completely in order to provide the PHRC with the relevant
information to assess the risk-benefit ratio for the study. Do not leave sections blank.

PRINCIPAL/OVERALL INVESTIGATOR
Olivia I. Okereke, MD, SM
PROTOCOL TITLE
VITAL-DEP: Depression Endpoint Prevention in the VITamin D and OmegA-3
TriaL
FUNDING
1 R01 MH091448-01A1 from the National Institutes of Health (NIH)

VERSION DATE
March 27, 2012

SPECIFIC AIMS
Concisely state the objectives of the study and the hypothesis being tested.
Our aim is to investigate prospectively the effect of two agents – vitamin D and omega-3 fatty acids –
for reducing the risk of depression and yielding better mood scores in the context of a large
randomized clinical trial with 5 years of follow-up. Specifically, the VITamin D and OmegA-3 TriaL
(VITAL) was just funded to assess the ability of these agents to prevent cardiovascular disease and
cancer in a 2x2 randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled factorial trial among 20,000 men and
women, aged ≥60 and ≥65 years, respectively.
VITAL-DEP is an ancillary study of VITAL (IRB # 2009P001217); all participants will be members of
the main VITAL protocol. The VITAL-DEP protocol is intimately linked to the VITAL protocol that
already been IRB approved. We present here only activities that are part of the VITAL-DEP study.
As with the parent proposal, we are asking for IRB review of our protocols in segments, and this
application is for the FULL cohort portion of VITAL-DEP, which involves all 20,000 VITAL
participants. For details please see RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS.
Specifically, we propose to evaluate the following aims:
PRIMARY AIMS
1. We will test whether vitamin D3 (cholecalciferol: 2000 IU/d) or marine omega-3 (EPA: 500 mg/d +
DHA: 500 mg/d) supplementation reduces risk of incident and recurrent clinical depressive
syndrome compared to placebo among all 20,000 participants in the VITAL trial.
2. We will test whether vitamin D3 (cholecalciferol: 2000 IU/d) or marine omega-3 (EPA: 500 mg/d +
DHA: 500 mg/d) supplementation yields better continuous mood scores on repeated measures
compared to placebo among all 20,000 VITAL trial participants over the 5-year study period.
SECONDARY AIMS
1. Response to D3 among African-Americans in the VITAL cohort:
Partners Human Subjects Research Application Form
Version Date: June 1, 2005

Filename: Protocol Summary
1

a. We will test whether African-American race modifies effects of vitamin D3 supplementation on
late-life depression risk and on mood scores among all VITAL participants (African-Americans, who
will be over-sampled and will represent 25% of the VITAL study population, are disproportionately
affected by vitamin D insufficiency).
2. Response to D3 and EPA+DHA among key clinical subgroups in the CTSC sub-cohort:
a. We will test whether individuals at high risk for depression (e.g., elevated anxiety, physical
functional impairment, chronic medical illness, living without partner) will demonstrate lower 2-year
risk of clinical depressive syndrome and depression scores over 2 years on active agent vs. placebo.
b. We will test whether individuals with subsyndromal depressive symptoms will demonstrate lower
2-year risk of major depressive disorder and depression scores over 2 years on active agent vs.
placebo. NOTE: A separate IRB application will be submitted for the CTSC sub-cohort portion.
3. Response to D3 and/or EPA+DHA by baseline plasma biomarker levels in a nested case-control
sample:
a. We will test whether low baseline vitamin D and EPA+DHA levels will be associated with elevated
risk of clinical depressive syndrome and worse depression scores over 5 years in the full VITAL
cohort.
b. We will test whether effects of vitamin D3, and of EPA+DHA, on risk of clinical depressive
syndrome and on depression scores will be modified by baseline plasma levels of vitamin D, and of
EPA+DHA, respectively.
EXPLORATORY AIMS – we will address whether:
a. Combined vitamin D3 and EPA+DHA will exert synergistic or additive effects on risk of clinical
depressive syndrome and on depression scores over time;
b. Effect of vitamin D3 or EPA+DHA supplementation will vary by (1) age, (2) gender, (3) baseline
intakes of vitamin D and omega-3, (4) baseline major medical comorbidities, (5) geographic
region/latitude (for vitamin D3), and (6) physical activity (for vitamin D3).

BACKGROUND AND SIGNIFICANCE
Provide a brief paragraph summarizing prior experience important for understanding the
proposed study and procedures.
Despite much progress in the treatment of mood disorders, depression continues to be a leading
cause of disease burden and disability for millions of older Americans. VITAL-DEP proposes to
leverage the strengths of the VITAL (1 U01 CA138962; IRB # 2009P001217) 2x2 factorial cancer
and heart disease prevention trial using vitamin D3 and marine omega-3 fatty acid (ω-3)
supplementation among 20,000 men and women aged ≥60 and ≥65 years, respectively, and to
implement procedures to estimate the effects of these agents on mood and risk of late-life
depression; VITAL also includes a sub-cohort of 1,000 participants recruited to a Clinical and
Translational Science Center (CTSC). Biologic and observational data support potential mental
health benefits of both vitamin D and omega-3 fatty acids. However, it remains unclear whether
these supplements can prevent onset of late-life depression or significantly reduce late-life
depressive symptoms.
VITAL-DEP will have adequate sample size and statistical power to address both primary (incidence)
and secondary prevention (recurrence) of depression and to utilize all modalities of state-of-the-art
prevention research: universal, selective and indicated. Findings from this proposed study will clarify
whether these agents reduce risk of late-life depression and depressive symptoms, and will provide
important data that will be applicable to public health and clinical guidelines for both primary and
secondary prevention of depression.

Partners Human Subjects Research Application Form
Version Date: June 1, 2005

Filename: Protocol Summary
2

RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS
Briefly describe study design and anticipated enrollment, i.e., number of subjects to be enrolled
by researchers study-wide and by Partners researchers. Provide a brief summary of the
eligibility criteria (for example, age range, gender, medical condition). Include any local site
restrictions, for example, “Enrollment at Partners will be limited to adults although the sponsor’s
protocol is open to both children and adults.”
VITAL-DEP is an ancillary study of VITAL (IRB # 2009P001217). The VITAL-DEP protocol is
intimately linked to the VITAL protocol that already been IRB approved. As with the parent proposal,
we are asking for IRB review of our protocols in two segments. In the first stage of this application,
we are seeking permission for the following activities that involve the FULL cohort of VITAL:
1. Receive updated data from the main VITAL parent trial regarding responses to the VITAL
mood questionnaire items.
2. Conduct enhanced telephone follow-ups with and send letters to VITAL participants who
meet an algorithmic threshold for clinically significant depressive symptoms on the VITAL
mood questionnaire.
3. Receive updated data from the main VITAL parent trial (via CMS [Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services] contractor) regarding evaluations, diagnoses and treatments related to
mood disorders (including depression) and other Diagnostic and Statistical Manual-IV (DSMIV) disorders.
4. Conduct biomarker analyses of baseline plasma vitamin D (25-hydroxy-vitamin D [25(OH)D])
and EPA and DHA acid levels among a subset (n=1,500) of the 20,000 VITAL participants, in
a nested case-control design, using pre-randomization blood samples collected by the main
VITAL study.
In parallel with the main VITAL study, in this application we are not applying for permission perform
the CTSC component (which will have its own separate IRB application). In the separate CTSC IRB
application we will seek permission for all CTSC protocol activities, with detailed descriptions of the
protocols and human subject protection issues. This present summary will include brief descriptions
of the portions of the protocol for which we will seek IRB approval in the later application.

Study Design:
We will conduct an ancillary study of depression within the VITAL trial (VITAL-DEP). VITAL-DEP will
be a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled 2x2 factorial clinical trial among 20,000 men and
women, respectively aged ≥60 and ≥65 years. All participants in VITAL-DEP will be participants in
the main VITAL trial (IRB # 2009P001217) and will be followed up for 5 years. We will assess
primary outcomes of the effects of the agents on prevention of incident and recurrent late-life
depression as well as benefits of the agents on continuous mood scores. The depression endpoint
(“depression”) in VITAL-DEP will be defined as any clinically significant depressive syndrome. This
combined depression endpoint will include the following DSM-IV and International Classification of
Disease-9 (ICD-9) diagnoses: major depressive disorder (MDD), dysthymia, adjustment disorder
including depressed mood, and depressive disorder not otherwise specified (NOS).

Anticipated enrollment:
Up to 20,000 men and women, respectively aged ≥60 and ≥65 years – the full complement of the
VITAL cohort – may be enrolled. However, given expected current prevalence of depression in this
population (which was informed by the available gender-, age- and ethnicity-specific evidence), we
anticipate that 18,200 persons will meet the additional eligibility criteria for VITAL-DEP (see below).

Eligibility criteria:
Participants in VITAL-DEP will be enrolled from across the US by mailed questionnaires.
Partners Human Subjects Research Application Form
Version Date: June 1, 2005

Filename: Protocol Summary
3

Participants in VITAL-DEP will meet the criteria for eligibility of the main VITAL trial: (1) men aged
aged ≥60 years and women aged ≥65 years, (2) have at least a high school education (to complete
mail-based questionnaires); (3) have no history of cancer (except non-melanoma skin cancer), MI,
stroke, TIA, angina pectoris, CABG, or PCI; (4) have none of the following safety exclusions: history
of kidney stones, renal failure or dialysis, hypercalcemia, hypo- or hyperparathyroidism, severe liver
disease (cirrhosis), or sarcoidosis or other granulomatous diseases, such as active chronic
tuberculosis or Wegener’s granulomatosis; (5) have no allergy to fish (for DHA+EPA); (6) have no
other serious illness that would preclude participation; (7) are consuming no more than 800 IU of
vitamin D from all supplemental sources combined (individual vitamin D supplements,
calcium+vitamin D supplements, medications with vitamin D [e.g., Fosamax Plus D], and
multivitamins), or if taking, willing to decrease or forego such use; (8) are consuming no more than
1200 mg/d of calcium (the RDA for individuals aged >50) from all supplemental sources combined,
or if taking, willing to decrease or forego such use during the trial; (9) are not taking fish oil
supplements, or if taking, willing to forego their use during the trial; and (10) are willing to participate,
as evidenced by signing the informed consent form.
In addition to the above criteria, VITAL-DEP will have additional eligibility criteria. Additional
exclusions for VITAL-DEP are: 1) current significant depressive symptoms; 2) self-reported history of
dysthymia with active dysthymic symptoms in the past one year; 3) self-reported core major
depressive disorder symptoms for a period of two or more weeks in the past two years; 4) any
history of alcohol and/or substance abuse disorder active in the past 12 months, schizophrenia or
other primary psychotic disorder, bipolar disorder, post-traumatic stress disorder or obsessivecompulsive disorder; 5) any psychiatric hospitalization in the past 2 years; 6) current psychotherapy
or use of psychotropics (including non-prescription drugs or herbals for treatment of mood
disorders), except for limited use of mild sedatives/hypnotics; 7) history of major neurologic disorder
(e.g., Parkinson disease, Alzheimer disease or other dementia, brain tumor, seizure disorder) or
delirium episode in the past 12 months.
Local site restrictions:
Participants in VITAL and VITAL-DEP will be enrolled from across the US by mailed questionnaires;
thus there is no local site recruitment.

Briefly describe study procedures. Include any local site restrictions, for example, “Subjects
enrolled at Partners will not participate in the pharmacokinetic portion of the study.” Describe
study endpoints.
Study procedures:
1) Enrollment: The participants of VITAL will be enrolled by a screening questionnaire. Those who
are screened receive another questionnaire that includes questions on nutrition and supplement use,
health history, and willingness to participate in blood draws (“Would you be willing to provide a blood
sample if we sent you a convenient collection kit containing everything you need?”).
2) Run-in: Those who meet the basic VITAL eligibility criteria will then undergo a run-in period to
identify the excellent compliers. In this period, all participants will be given placebo vitamin D and
placebo fish oil and assessed on compliance and willingness to continue. In addition, all participants
will be asked for blood samples and completion of questionnaires on diet and depression (as part of
the main VITAL protocol).

Partners Human Subjects Research Application Form
Version Date: June 1, 2005

Filename: Protocol Summary
4

Importantly, using the mood items on the run-in questionnaires, we will ascertain current and past
history of depression symptoms, diagnoses and/or treatments. This information (supplemented by
information from CMS) will be used to determine eligibility for VITAL-DEP.
To perform follow-ups for VITAL participants scoring above established cutoffs for the PHQ-8, we
will adhere to a hierarchical approach to follow-up contacts, optimizing feasibility, timeliness and
contact coverage of our participants. First, we will be sending letters to all VITAL participants who
score above the PHQ-8 ≥10 algorithmic cutoff, where there is no self-report by the participant of both
recent diagnosis and treatment of depression on the questionnaire or an indication of such from the
CMS data. These letters serve to educate participants about the presence of mood problems that
could include depression and to encourage them to discuss their mood with their health provider; the
letters also provide contact information should the participants wish to speak with study investigators
about the letter. Data computer programmers will be able to determine such status as soon as
returned questionnaires are processed into the system, triggering generation of the follow-up letters.
We have composed three letters to cover all participants in the VITAL study who return responses to
the PHQ-8: 1) those who are subsequently randomized to active study pills, 2) those who are later
determined to be ineligible for VITAL, and 3) those who indicate unwillingness to continue future
involvement in the study. A key goal is to ensure that participants are educated about the need to
discuss their mood with their local providers and, thus, initiate a path for ongoing evaluation and/or
treatment as necessary; thus, among participants who are randomized and continue in the study, we
will only conducts these contacts when participants first report above-threshold scores. These letters
will also be sent to any participant who scores above the threshold for clinically significant
depressive symptoms on the PHQ-8 (≥15) (N.B.: work by the developers of the PHQ-8 indicates
likely depression of moderate-to-severe degree at this score), regardless of whether they report
recent depression diagnosis or treatment, or whether they have any core features (depressed mood
or anhedonia) in the PHQ algorithm. We feel that this step is important: although some individuals
with PHQ-8 scores ≥15 may not meet DSM-IV criteria for major depression, persons with such
symptoms may be at increased risk of poor outcomes if their symptoms go unrecognized and/or
untreated and/or under-treated.
3) Randomization: Those who demonstrate good compliance and a willingness to continue with the
2x2 factorial trial will be randomized by VITAL.
4) Follow-up data collection:
A. Self-reported symptoms (PHQ-8) as well as diagnoses and treatment(s) will be ascertained from
responses on the VITAL baseline (year 0) and follow-up questionnaires (years 1, 3 and 5).
B. On an annual basis, CMS data diagnoses and treatments related to depression and/or other
mental disorders will be ascertained with the assistance of VITAL’s CMS contractor ResDAC
(www.resdac.unm.edu/Index.asp).
C. The combination of the above follow-up data (self-reports on the VITAL questionnaires and CMS
data) will be used to ascertain the depression endpoint.
5) Biochemical analyses of baseline vitamin D and omega-3 fatty acids will be conducted on blood
samples collected as part of the main VITAL protocol. Participants will comprise a nested casecontrol study and will be selected from among VITAL participants with baseline, pre-randomization
blood samples (as part of the main VITAL protocol). Blood levels of 25(OH)D and marine omega-3
fatty acids (DHA+EPA) will be assayed on 500 cases of depression and 1,000 controls matched on
5-year age group, gender, follow-up time and season of blood draw. Circulating 25(OH)D will be
determined by radioimmunoassay, and DHA and EPA will be quantified using a high-throughput
method that employs fast gas chromatography and robotic transesterification to achieve high fatty
acid methyl ester (FAME) resolution. VITAL-DEP will only use the existing blood samples collected
by VITAL, and will not solicit or collect any additional blood samples from participants.
6) Statistical analysis to evaluate the specific aims. The primary study endpoints are: 1) relative risks
of incident and recurrent depression and 2) trajectory of mood scores over time. Secondarily, we will
Partners Human Subjects Research Application Form
Version Date: June 1, 2005

Filename: Protocol Summary
5

assess: 1) impact of vitamin D3 supplementation on depression risk among African-Americans (who
are at increased risk of vitamin D insufficiency), 2) impact of both agents among clinical sub-groups
at high risk for depression (CTSC sub-cohort; separate IRB application), and 3) impact of baseline
plasma vitamin D and marine omega-3 levels on depression risk in a nested case-control sample of
1,500 participants. Finally, we explore potential interactions of the agents with key modifiers.
7) Manuscript preparation, submission and publication.

For studies involving treatment or diagnosis, provide information about standard of care at
Partners (e.g., BWH, MGH) and indicate how the study procedures differ from standard care.
Provide information on available alternative treatments, procedures, or methods of diagnosis.
This study does not involve treatment or diagnosis of participants. We will not be performing clinical
assessments of mood and/or other disorders, but rather will be obtaining self-reports of depressive
symptoms and diagnoses from participants, as well as CMS data on diagnoses and treatments
already performed by their health providers.

Describe how risks to subjects are minimized, for example, by using procedures which are
consistent with sound research design and which do not unnecessarily expose subjects to risk or
by using procedures already being performed on the subject for diagnostic or treatment purposes.
There is the possibility of social/psychological risk that could result from inadvertent disclosure of
confidential information. However, we have many safeguards in place to avoid this possibility, and
we have never had an inadvertent breach of confidentiality in any of the previous trials in the BWH
Division of Preventive Medicine (the “Division”) that is running the VITAL trial.
The potential risk of disclosure of confidential information is guarded against by maintaining data,
questionnaires and forms in locked files accessible by authorized personnel only. In these files,
participants are identified only by study ID. Subject identifiers are stored in separate computer files
with password protection, and results will be presented only in the aggregate. In addition, employees
involved with the proposed study will be asked to sign a form agreeing not to disclose any
information to which they might have access, regardless of their personal perception about its
confidentiality. Each employee of the study with human subject contact participates in an institutional
(Brigham and Women’s Hospital) human subjects educational program, which consists of reviewing
regulatory and informational documents pertaining to human subjects research; passing a test on
ethical principles and regulations governing human subjects research; and signing a statement of
commitment to the protection of human subjects. Finally, all such employees are required to
participate in HIPAA training.

Describe explicitly the methods for ensuring the safety of subjects. Provide objective criteria for
removing a subject from the study, for example, objective criteria for worsening disease/lack of
improvement and/or unacceptable adverse events. The inclusion of objective drop criteria is
especially important in studies designed with placebo control groups.
To further enhance the safety of our participants, we will be sending letters, as detailed above, to
those who score above the PHQ-8 ≥10 algorithmic cutoff, where there is no self-report by the
participant of both recent diagnosis and treatment of depression or an indication of such from the
CMS data; further, we will be sending the letters to any participant who scores at or above PHQ-8 of
15, regardless of recent diagnosis and/or treatment for depression by self-report. We feel that this
Partners Human Subjects Research Application Form
Version Date: June 1, 2005

Filename: Protocol Summary
6

step is important: although some individuals with PHQ-8 scores ≥15 may not meet DSM-IV criteria
for major depression, persons with such symptoms may be at increased risk of poor outcomes
(including self-harm) if depression goes unrecognized and/or untreated and/or under-treated. As
noted above, the letters also provide contact information should the participants wish to speak with
study investigators about the letter. Thus, the VITAL-DEP RA, working under the direction of the PI,
will work with data programmers to coordinate the send-out of the letters and to track the letters and
any participant responses, comments or questions pertaining to the letters.
Other methods for insuring subjects’ safety, removing subjects from the study and the DSMB review
of adverse events (including mental health-related events, such as suicidal behavior) are all part of
the main VITAL trial. The only additional risk in participating in VITAL-DEP is risk to subjects’ privacy
(please see above section on minimizing risks).

FORESEEABLE RISKS AND DISCOMFORTS
Provide a brief description of any foreseeable risks and discomforts to subjects. Include those
related to drugs/devices/procedures being studied and/or administered/performed solely for
research purposes. In addition, include psychosocial risks, and risks related to privacy and
confidentiality. When applicable, describe risks to a developing fetus or nursing infant.
There is the possibility of social/psychological risk that could result from inadvertent disclosure of
confidential information. However, we have many safeguards in place to avoid this possibility, and
we have never had an inadvertent breach of confidentiality in any of the previous trials in the
Division, which is overseeing VITAL.

EXPECTED BENEFITS
Describe both the expected benefits to individual subjects participating in the research and the
importance of the knowledge that may reasonably be expected to result from the study. Provide
a brief, realistic summary of potential benefits to subjects, for example, “It is hoped that the
treatment will result in a partial reduction in tumor size in at least 25% of the enrolled subjects.”
Indicate how the results of the study will benefit future patients with the disease/condition being
studied and/or society, e.g., through increased knowledge of human physiology or behavior,
improved safety, or technological advances.
For the majority of participants, there will be few direct benefits from participating in this primary
prevention study other than the awareness of being involved in a large endeavor to answer relevant
and timely questions regarding the possible benefit of vitamin D and fish oil.
During the trial itself, we will receive inquiries from the participants regarding both specific and
general health concerns. We will respond to each of those questions, primarily directing participants
to published sources or recommending that they see their local health provider who is familiar with
their medical history. In addition, participants may benefit from the enhanced follow-up of those
reporting high levels of depressive symptoms. Many such persons might not otherwise be referred to
their local providers for further evaluation and management of depression.
The purported health benefits of vitamin D and marine omega-3 fatty acids are receiving increasing
attention in the medical literature and the popular press. Sales of vitamin D supplements and
omega-3 fatty acid supplements at U.S. stores have increased substantially in recent years.
However, definitive data on health benefits and risks of these agents are lacking. Findings from this
large clinical trial will clarify the role of vitamin D and marine omega-3 fatty acid supplements in the
prevention of depression will help guide individual decisions, clinical recommendations, and public
health guidelines.
Partners Human Subjects Research Application Form
Version Date: June 1, 2005

Filename: Protocol Summary
7

EQUITABLE SELECTION OF SUBJECTS
The risks and benefits of the research must be fairly distributed among the populations that stand
to benefit from it. No group of persons, for example, men, women, pregnant women, children,
and minorities, should be categorically excluded from the research without a good scientific or
ethical reason to do so. Please provide the basis for concluding that the study population is
representative of the population that stands to potentially benefit from this research.
The gender distribution of the 20,000 participants in VITAL will be 50% male and 50% female—
specifically, 10,000 men aged ≥60 and 10,000 women aged ≥65.
Based on the VITAL pilot results, we expect the following ethnic distribution: 1,400 (7%) Hispanic
and 18,600 (93%) non-Hispanic; with regard to race, we anticipate 5,000 (25%) African-American,
500 (2.5%) Asian, 400 (2%) American Indian (Native American), 80 (0.4%) Pacific Islander, and
14,020 (70.1%) white individuals. Note that ethnic and racial categories can overlap—e.g.,
participants can be Hispanic-white or Hispanic-black.

The outcomes to be studied, incident and recurrent late-life depression, were selected for this
prevention trial because they represent major causes of disease burden and disability in older men
and women. Furthermore, as the funded parent VITAL study, with which the proposed VITAL-DEP
ancillary is associated, does not include participants under the age of 60 years, children and
adolescents were not included in the VITAL-DEP proposal. Finally, there are limited data available
regarding the efficacy and safety of vitamin D and omega-3 fatty acids as depression prevention
agents in adults; it would therefore be preferable to obtain more adult data prior to testing these
agents in younger children. As there are other treatments (i.e., non-medication treatments, or
psychotherapies) available for children and adolescents at risk for depression, exclusion of children
from this study should not prevent them from obtaining appropriate care.

When people who do not speak English are excluded from participation in the research, provide
the scientific rationale for doing so. Individuals who do not speak English should not be denied
participation in research simply because it is inconvenient to translate the consent form in
different languages and to have an interpreter present.
The participants in VITAL will be English speaking/ English proficient. It is not our intention to
exclude non-English speaking participants. Indeed, the mood items we are utilizing (e.g., the PHQ)
and will be on the VITAL questionnaires have been translated into several languages or are readily
translatable. However, because our VITAL-DEP participants will all be part of the VITAL trial, we
expect that they will all be English speaking/proficient.

For guidance, refer to the following Partners policy:
Obtaining and Documenting Informed Consent of Subjects who do not Speak English
http://healthcare.partners.org/phsirb/nonengco.htm

RECRUITMENT PROCEDURES
Partners Human Subjects Research Application Form
Version Date: June 1, 2005

Filename: Protocol Summary
8

Explain in detail the specific methodology that will be used to recruit subjects. Specifically
address how, when, where and by whom subjects will be identified and approached about
participation. Include any specific recruitment methods used to enhance recruitment of women
and minorities.
20,000 men and women, respectively aged ≥60 and ≥65 years will be recruited into VITAL. All of our
participants will come from the VITAL cohort. However, given expected current prevalence of
depression in this population (which was informed by the available gender-, age- and ethnicityspecific evidence), we anticipate that 18,200 persons will meet the additional eligibility criteria for
VITAL-DEP and will be eligible for our analyses of depression prevention.

Provide details of remuneration, when applicable. Even when subjects may derive medical
benefit from participation, it is often the case that extra hospital visits, meals at the hospital,
parking fees or other inconveniences will result in additional out-of-pocket expenses related to
study participation. Investigators may wish to consider providing reimbursement for such
expenses when funding is available
There is no compensation for participating in VITAL-DEP.

For guidance, refer to the following Partners policies:
Recruitment of Research Subjects
http://healthcare.partners.org/phsirb/recruit.htm
Guidelines for Advertisements for Recruiting Subjects
http://healthcare.partners.org/phsirb/advert.htm
Remuneration for Research Subjects
http://healthcare.partners.org/phsirb/remun.htm

CONSENT PROCEDURES
Explain in detail how, when, where, and by whom consent is obtained, and the timing of consent
(i.e., how long subjects will be given to consider participation). For most studies involving more
than minimal risk and all studies involving investigational drugs/devices, a licensed physician
investigator must obtain informed consent. When subjects are to be enrolled from among the
investigators’ own patients, describe how the potential for coercion will be avoided.
VITAL-DEP participants will have provided informed consent for participation in VITAL using the
approved procedure ((IRB # 2009P001217). As part of the VITAL informed consent procedure,
participants will already be notified that study investigators may need to contact them directly with
regard to development of endpoints and also to obtain releases to contact their local health
providers. No additional informed consent procedures are planned for VITAL-DEP participants
beyond those of VITAL. Standard releases of medical information will be required to be signed by
participants in order to communicate with their local health providers, except in the case of an
emergency (such as suicidal ideation with imminent threat of self-harm). VITAL participants may
decline their participation in VITAL at any time and can refuse at any time to answer (leave blank)
items on mood or depression on the questionnaires.
Partners Human Subjects Research Application Form
Version Date: June 1, 2005

Filename: Protocol Summary
9

NOTE: When subjects are unable to give consent due to age (minors) or impaired decisionmaking capacity, complete the forms for Research Involving Children as Subjects of Research
and/or Research Involving Individuals with Impaired Decision-making Capacity, available on
the New Submissions page on the PHRC website:
http://healthcare.partners.org/phsirb/newapp.htm#Newapp
For guidance, refer to the following Partners policy:
Informed Consent of Research Subjects
http://healthcare.partners.org/phsirb/infcons.htm

DATA AND SAFETY MONITORING
Describe the plan for monitoring the data to ensure the safety of subjects. The plan should
include a brief description of (1) the safety and/or efficacy data that will be reviewed; (2) the
planned frequency of review; and (3) who will be responsible for this review and for determining
whether the research should be altered or stopped. Include a brief description of any stopping
rules for the study, when appropriate. Depending upon the risk, size and complexity of the
study, the investigator, an expert group, an independent Data and Safety Monitoring Board
(DSMB) or others might be assigned primary responsibility for this monitoring activity.
NOTE: Regardless of data and safety monitoring plans by the sponsor or others, the principal
investigator is ultimately responsible for protecting the rights, safety, and welfare of subjects
under his/her care.
An independent Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) will be assembled, consisting of experts
in clinical trials, epidemiology, biostatistics, relevant clinical areas of cancer and CVD, cognitive
function and NIH representatives. The Physicians’ Health Study, the Women’s Health Study, and the
Women’s Antioxidant and Folic Acid Cardiovascular Study (the main trials as well as ancillary
outcome studies) have been monitored by the same DSMB since their inception. As two of these
trials have ended and the third is in its last years, we will ask our DSMB members if they would be
willing to also monitor VITAL. If they are not able to do so, we will consult with them in assembling a
new DSMB. Current VITAL DSMB members are Drs. Lawrence S. Cohen, Theodore Colton, Mark A.
Espeland, I. Craig Henderson, Alice H. Lichtenstein, Rebecca A. Silliman, and Nanette Wenger
(chair). Ex officio members are Drs. Josephine Boyington (NHLBI), Rebecca B. Costello (ODS),
Cindy D. Davis (NCI), Peter Greenwald (NCI), and Lawrence Fine (NHLBI). In addition, we will
nominate experts in depression clinical trials and psychiatric outcome measurement to the VITAL
DSMB. The DSMB Chair has strongly endorsed the importance of such experts on the DSMB, and
their presence will ensure a high level of acumen for monitoring differences in depression by
treatment arm.
The VITAL Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) will be charged with ensuring that the safety
of participants is protected and that the scientific goals of the study are being met. The VITAL
DSMB will include psychiatric expertise and will monitor differences by treatment arm of ancillary
study outcomes, including depression, and will be empowered to terminate the trial based on
evidence of substantial harm or benefit. To support those purposes, the DSMB will review any
proposed amendments to the study protocol, examine the progress of the trial and the unblinded
data on study endpoints, perform expedited review of all serious adverse events (i.e., events
meeting the FDA definition of Serious Adverse Events, such as any fatal event including suicide,
immediately life-threatening event, or permanently or substantially disabling event), perform ongoing
Partners Human Subjects Research Application Form
Version Date: June 1, 2005

Filename: Protocol Summary
10

monitoring of drop-outs and non-serious adverse events, determine whether study procedures
should be changed or the study should be halted for reasons related to the safety of participants,
and perform periodic review of the completeness and validity of data to be used for analysis of safety
and efficacy. The DSMB will also ensure participant privacy and research data confidentiality.
The DSMB will annually examine the progress of the trial and the unblinded data on study endpoints
and possible adverse effects to recommend continuation, alteration of study design, or early
termination, as appropriate. Interim trial results will be assessed with the Haybittle-Peto rule,
adjusting for multiple looks. In this method, interim results are compared to a z-score of 3 standard
deviations (p=0.0027) throughout the trial. The final results may then be interpreted as having close
to nominal significance levels. This rule appropriately requires very strong evidence for early
stopping, is more conservative than the Pocock and O’Brien-Fleming rules and the alpha-spending
function, and can be conducted at convenient times without inducing statistical complexity. The
monitoring rules will serve solely as guidelines in decisions regarding continuation or stopping of
treatment arms. All decisions will be made after examining the totality of evidence, including other
trial data, on these agents.

Describe the plan to be followed by the Principal Investigator/study staff for review of adverse
events experienced by subjects under his/her care, and when applicable, for review of sponsor
safety reports and DSMB reports. Describe the plan for reporting adverse events to the sponsor
and the Partners’ IRB and, when applicable, for submitting sponsor safety reports and DSMB
reports to the Partners’ IRBs. When the investigator is also the sponsor of the IND/IDE, include
the plan for reporting of adverse events to the FDA and, when applicable, to investigators at
other sites.
NOTE: In addition to the adverse event reporting requirements of the sponsor, the principal
investigator must follow the Partners Human Research Committee guidelines for Adverse Event
Reporting
The DSMB will annually examine the progress of the trial and the unblinded data on study endpoints
and possible adverse effects to recommend continuation, alteration of study design, or early
termination, as appropriate.

MONITORING AND QUALITY ASSURANCE
Describe the plan to be followed by the principal investigator/study staff to monitor and assure
the validity and integrity of the data and adherence to the IRB-approved protocol. Specify who
will be responsible for monitoring, and the planned frequency of monitoring. For example,
specify who will review the accuracy and completeness of case report form entries, source
documents, and informed consent.
NOTE: Regardless of monitoring plans by the sponsor or others, the principal investigator is
ultimately responsible for ensuring that the study is conducted at his/her investigative site in
accordance with the IRB-approved protocol, and applicable regulations and requirements of the
IRB.
All research forms (e.g., VITAL questionnaires) will be scanned in and the data read by a character
recognition software program (Teleform). Out-of-range, internally inconsistent, and unclear data will
be reviewed by a verifier who will edit misread variables. Forms that cannot be scanned will be
entered using traditional double-entry procedures. All data will undergo additional within form and
across-time checks to verify accuracy. Following data entry, all questionnaire responses that require
Partners Human Subjects Research Application Form
Version Date: June 1, 2005

Filename: Protocol Summary
11

additional follow-up for missing data, participant comments on the form or for endpoint validation will
be manually reviewed to insure correct processing and accurate follow-up.

For guidance, refer to the following Partners policies:
Data and Safety Monitoring Plans and Quality Assurance
http://healthcare.partners.org/phsirb/datasafe.htm
Adverse Event Reporting Guidelines
http://healthcare.partners.org/phsirb/adverse_events.htm

PRIVACY AND CONFIDENTIALITY
Describe methods used to protect the privacy of subjects and maintain confidentiality of data
collected. This typically includes such practices as substituting codes for names and/or medical
record numbers; removing face sheets or other identifiers from completed
surveys/questionnaires; proper disposal of printed computer data; limited access to study data;
use of password-protected computer databases; training for research staff on the importance of
confidentiality of data, and storing research records in a secure location.
NOTE: Additional measures, such as obtaining a Certificate of Confidentiality, should be
considered and are strongly encouraged when the research involves the collection of sensitive
data, such as sexual, criminal or illegal behaviors.
The potential risk of disclosure of confidential information is guarded against by maintaining
completed questionnaires and blood test results in locked files accessible by authorized personnel
only. Depression endpoint and mental health-related questionnaire data will be stored in separate
files from the processing data and will be accessible only to approved investigators and
programmers. In these files, participants are identified only by study ID. Subject identifiers are stored
in separate computer files with password protection, and results will be presented only in the
aggregate. Subject identifiers will retrieved only by approved and trained personnel for the purposes
of making enhanced safety telephone follow-ups. Each dataset will require documentation with
information about the methodology and procedures used to collect the data, details about codes,
definitions of variables, variable field locations, frequencies, etc. The precise content of
documentation will vary by scientific area and characteristics of the dataset. Participants’ names and
contact information will be accessible only to staff members who need the information for their jobs.
In addition, employees involved with the proposed study will be asked to sign a form agreeing not to
disclose any information to which they might have access. Each employee of the study with human
subject contact participates in an institutional (Brigham and Women’s Hospital) human subjects
educational program, which consists of reviewing regulatory documents; passing a test on ethical
principles and regulations governing human subjects research; and signing a statement of
commitment to the protection of human subjects. Finally, employees are required to obtain HIPAA
training. Thus, our existing computer and security systems balance considerations of careful followup and high levels of data security and privacy protection.

SENDING SPECIMENS/DATA TO RESEARCH COLLABORATORS OUTSIDE
PARTNERS
Specimens or data collected by Partners investigators will be sent to research collaborators
outside Partners, indicate to whom specimens/data will be sent, what information will be sent,
Partners Human Subjects Research Application Form
Version Date: June 1, 2005

Filename: Protocol Summary
12

and whether the specimens/data will contain identifiers that could be used by the outside
collaborators to link the specimens/data to individual subjects.
Blood samples will be sent to the laboratory of Dr. Bruce at the Medical
University of South Carolina in Charleston (a Consultant on the VITAL parent
grant) for measurement of circulating 25(OH)D. Blood samples will be sent
to the laboratory of Cdr. Dr. Joseph Hibbeln at the Laboratory of Membrane
Biophysics and Biochemistry (LMBB), NIAAA, NIH for measurement of
plasma fatty acids. Per standard practice, hospital-approved Material
Transfer Agreements (MTAs) will be required of these Collaborators before
specimens can be transferred. All the blood samples will be provided in nonidentifiable form such that links to identifiable humans do not exist.

Specifically address whether specimens/data will be stored at collaborating sites outside
Partners for future use not described in the protocol. Include whether subjects can withdraw
their specimens/data, and how they would do so. When appropriate, submit documentation of
IRB approval from the recipient institution.
Specimens/data will not be stored at outside collaborating sites.
RECEIVING SPECIMENS/DATA FROM RESEARCH COLLABORATORS OUTSIDE
PARTNERS
When specimens or data collected by research collaborators outside Partners will be sent to
Partners investigators, indicate from where the specimens/data will be obtained and whether the
specimens/data will contain identifiers that could be used by Partners investigators to link the
specimens/data to individual subjects. When appropriate, submit documentation of IRB
approval and a copy of the IRB-approved consent form from the institution where the
specimens/data were collected.
We will not receive specimens/data from outside collaborators.

Partners Human Subjects Research Application Form
Version Date: June 1, 2005

Filename: Protocol Summary
13

Detailed Protocol: VITAL-DEP: Depression Endpoint Prevention in the VITamin D and OmegA-3 TriaL
Olivia I. Okereke, MD, SM
03-27-12

I.

BACKGROUND AND SIGNIFICANCE
Depression is among the most disabling of all health conditions. By 2020, depression will nearly top the list of
global causes of disability – second only to heart disease1-3. Depression in late-life, in particular, is strongly
associated with increased morbidity, health care utilization, and costs4. Thus, prevention of late-life depression
is a public health priority. The VITAL (VITamin D and OmegA-3 TriaL, 1 R01 CA 138962) study, which will
investigate effects of vitamin D and marine omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid (ω-3 PUFA) supplements on
heart disease and cancer prevention among 20,000 men and women (aged ≥60 and ≥65 years, respectively)
presents a novel opportunity to conduct the first large-scale randomized controlled trial of primary and
secondary prevention of late-life depression. The proposed study will test whether long-term use of vitamin D
and/or marine ω-3 PUFAs can reduce the risk of depression, as well as levels of depressive symptoms, among
older adults. VITAL-DEP also provides an opportunity to conduct a study with sufficient sample size and
statistical power5 to test simultaneously agents for universal, selective and indicated prevention of depression 6.
Recent observational data support an association between low vitamin D levels and depressed mood among
older people. In one large study7, serum 25(OH)D levels were significantly lower in depressed vs. nondepressed elders, and depression scores were significantly inversely associated with vitamin D levels. Trial
data on vitamin D supplementation and depressive symptoms have produced mixed results8, 9, and have
featured important limitations10, including small sample size and likely insufficient treatment dose/duration.
Overall, there are growing suggestions that a large-scale depression prevention trial of vitamin D – especially
among older people, who are at high risk for vitamin D deficiency – is an idea whose time has come.10, 11 In
addition, African-Americans are a particularly important group among whom to investigate this question, as
they tend to have lower vitamin D levels than Caucasian-Americans.12, 13 African-Americans are also
overrepresented among those with severe and disabling depression14 – yet simultaneously face significant
barriers to evaluation and treatment of depression, particularly at late-life.15, 16 Thus, any late-life depression
trial of vitamin D3 would need to consider potential impact for African-Americans.
Depression has been inversely related to marine ω-3 PUFA and fish intake in many17-22 but not all23-26 largerscale observational studies with cross-sectional design. However, there are no prospective data yet from largescale observational studies regarding marine ω-3 PUFAs and depression. There have been several
randomized single- or double-blind clinical trials investigating marine ω-3 PUFAs and non-bipolar depression in
adults27-35. These trials have suggested likely antidepressant effects of marine ω-3 PUFAs, especially as
adjunctive therapy. However, limitations36, 37 of prior RCTs include: 1) relatively small sample size (n<100), 2)
short-term follow-up (≤6 months), 3) insufficient power to address racial/ethnic differences, or 4) having few
older participants. Furthermore, participants in all but two31, 35 trials were from clinical populations, with existing
depressive disorders; most studies involved augmenting existing antidepressant therapy with marine ω-3
PUFAs. There are no data from large-scale randomized controlled trials regarding the use of marine ω-3
PUFA supplementation for prevention of clinical depression in generally healthy adults.
We propose an ancillary study to evaluate the critical health endpoint of depression within VITAL: VITAL-DEP
(depression endpoint prevention). VITAL-DEP will utilize both categorical and continuous outcome
measurements15, 38 – taking maximal advantage of the larger VITAL study design. Incidence and recurrence
rates of late-life clinical depressive syndromes and levels of depression symptom scores39 will be the primary
outcomes. In addition, VITAL-DEP will conduct an RCT of these trial agents among a random subset of 1,000
men and women – aged ≥60 and ≥65 years, respectively – who will be evaluated in-person at the four VITALaffiliated Clinical and Translational Science Centers (CTSCs), using standard psychiatric interviews40. The
CTSC sub-cohort participants will be administered psychiatric interviews at baseline, and again at two-year
follow-up, facilitating our examination of treatment effects in well-characterized, key clinical subgroups.

Detailed Protocol: VITAL-DEP: Depression Endpoint Prevention in the VITamin D and OmegA-3 TriaL
Olivia I. Okereke, MD, SM
03-27-12

II.

SPECIFIC AIMS
PRIMARY AIMS
1. We will test whether vitamin D3 (cholecalciferol: 2000 IU/d) or marine omega-3 (EPA: 500 mg/d + DHA: 500
mg/d) supplementation reduces risk of incident and recurrent clinical depressive syndrome compared to
placebo among all participants in the VITAL trial.
2. We will test whether vitamin D3 (cholecalciferol: 2000 IU/d) or marine omega-3 (EPA: 500 mg/d + DHA: 500
mg/d) supplementation yields better continuous mood scores on repeated measures compared to placebo
among all VITAL trial participants over the 5-year study period.
SECONDARY AIMS
1. Response to D3 among African-Americans in the VITAL cohort:
a. We will test whether African-American race modifies effects of vitamin D3 supplementation on late-life
depression risk and on mood scores among all VITAL participants (African-Americans, who will represent 25%
of the VITAL study population, are disproportionately affected by vitamin D insufficiency).
2. Response to D3 and EPA+DHA among key clinical subgroups in the CTSC sub-cohort:
a. We will test whether individuals at high risk for depression (e.g., elevated anxiety, physical functional
impairment, chronic medical illness, living without partner) will demonstrate lower 2-year risk of clinical
depressive syndrome and depression scores over 2 years on active agent vs. placebo.
b. We will test whether individuals with subsyndromal depressive symptoms will demonstrate lower 2-year risk
of major depressive disorder and depression scores over 2 years on active agent vs. placebo.
3. Response to D3 and/or EPA+DHA by baseline plasma biomarker levels in a nested case-control sample:
a. We will test whether low baseline vitamin D and EPA+DHA levels will be associated with elevated risk of
clinical depressive syndrome and worse depression scores over 5 years in the full VITAL cohort.
b. We will test whether effects of vitamin D3, and of EPA+DHA, on risk of clinical depressive syndrome and on
depression scores will be modified by baseline plasma levels of vitamin D, and of EPA+DHA, respectively.
EXPLORATORY AIMS – we will address whether:
a. Combined vitamin D3 and EPA+DHA will exert synergistic or additive effects on risk of clinical depressive
syndrome and on depression scores over time;
b. Effect of vitamin D3 or EPA+DHA supplementation will vary by (1) age, (2) gender, (3) baseline intakes of
vitamin D and omega-3, (4) baseline major medical comorbidities, (5) geographic region/latitude (for vitamin
D3), and (6) physical activity (for vitamin D3).

III.

SUBJECT SELECTION
VITAL-DEP participants will be members of the full cohort (n=20,000) of VITAL (IRB # 2009P001217) who
meet all inclusion and exclusion criteria for VITAL and also satisfy additional exclusion criteria for the
depression prevention study. In general, participants with a history of psychiatric disorders apart from
depressive disorders will be excluded. Detailed exclusions are: 1) current significant depressive symptoms; 2)
self-reported history of dysthymia with active dysthymic symptoms in the past one year; 3) self-reported core
major depressive disorder symptoms for a period of two or more weeks in the past two years; 4) any history of
alcohol and/or substance abuse disorder active in the past 12 months, schizophrenia or other primary
psychotic disorder, bipolar disorder, post-traumatic stress disorder or obsessive-compulsive disorder; 5) any
psychiatric hospitalization in the past 2 years; 6) current psychotherapy or use of psychotropics (including nonprescription drugs or herbals for treatment of mood disorders), except for limited use of mild
sedatives/hypnotics; 7) history of major neurologic disorder (e.g., Parkinson disease, Alzheimer disease or
other dementia, brain tumor, seizure disorder) or delirium episode in the past 12 months.

Detailed Protocol: VITAL-DEP: Depression Endpoint Prevention in the VITamin D and OmegA-3 TriaL
Olivia I. Okereke, MD, SM
03-27-12

Details on ascertainment of these exclusion variables for the full VITAL cohort are provided below. The
procedures for the entire full cohort VITAL study have been IRB-approved (IRB # 2009P001217).
For the CTSC sub-cohort (n=1,000) described in Secondary Aim 2, a separate IRB application will be
submitted. As there a numerous planned ancillary studies to VITAL (including the current VITAL-DEP
application), a single IRB for the entire CTSC protocol – including all detailed assessment and safety
procedures for VITAL-DEP – has been separately prepared for submission by VITAL.
IV.

SUBJECT ENROLLMENT
VITAL-DEP participants will consist only of those participants who have already been enrolled in VITAL (IRB #
2009P001217). Thus, VITAL-DEP will have the identical enrollment procedure. The IRB-approved enrollment
procedure for VITAL is as follows:
1) Enrollment: Participants in VITAL will be enrolled from across the US by mailed screening questionnaires.
2) Run-in: Those who meet the basic eligibility criteria will then undergo a run-in period to identify the excellent
compliers. In this period, all participants will be given placebo vitamin D and placebo fish oil and assessed on
compliance and willingness to continue. In addition, all participants will be asked for blood samples (as part of
the main VITAL protocol). Importantly, the VITAL run-in questionnaires will include questions on history of
current and past depression symptoms, diagnosis and treatment.
3) Randomization: Those who demonstrate good compliance, a willingness to continue with the 2x2 factorial
trial will be randomized.

V.

STUDY PROCEDURES
1) Overview.
The depression endpoint (“depression”) in VITAL-DEP will be defined as any clinically significant depressive
syndrome41. This combined depression endpoint will include the following Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of
Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition (DSM-IV)42 and International Classification of Disease-9 (ICD-9) diagnoses:
major depressive disorder (MDD), dysthymia, adjustment disorder including depressed mood, and depressive
disorder not otherwise specified (NOS). As depressive syndromes – even those that do not meet criteria for
MDD – can have significant impact on morbidity43, 44, we chose not to restrict our endpoint to DSM-IV-defined
MDD. Use of such composite endpoints of highly-related outcomes is common in large prevention trials45-48,
and has also been utilized in studies of incident late-life depression49.
2) Measures and sources of information for depression status determination in the full VITAL cohort.
All VITAL participants will receive questionnaires at baseline, and at follow-up years 1, 3 and 5, that include the
Patient Health Questionnaire-8 (PHQ-8)39. See mood questions in Appendix (VITAL 3).
Patient Health Questionnaire-8. The PHQ-8 was developed for detection of depression in primary care and
community-based settings. It is identical to the PHQ-950 with the exception of the item on suicidal ideation and
behaviors39, 51. Prior validation work in >6,000 participants established that elimination of this item has no
impact on the ability of the PHQ-8 to classify depression and that identical scoring thresholds for depression
can be used52. We chose to delete this item after careful consideration of potential consequences. VITAL will
mail questionnaires to thousands of participants around the country, and the time lag between questionnaire

Detailed Protocol: VITAL-DEP: Depression Endpoint Prevention in the VITamin D and OmegA-3 TriaL
Olivia I. Okereke, MD, SM
03-27-12

send-date and post-receipt data processing is usually several weeks to months. Thus, we would not be able to
identify a positive response to suicide inquiry in a reasonable period of time. We believe that adding this item
could create a false expectation of a rapid response, as many participants might reasonably expect that
investigators would not make such an inquiry unless they intended to respond immediately. Consequently,
safety could actually be compromised, as participants could be induced to wait months for an investigator
response, rather than contacting health providers or supportive persons promptly with such symptoms. To best
protect participant safety, we worked with the VITAL parent trial investigators to modify the VITAL
questionnaire to include language informing all participants that if any of the questions raise their level of
awareness or concern about depression or mood, then they should promptly contact their health providers.
Also see “Enhanced follow-up procedures.”
After careful review of other available self-report instruments (e.g., CES-D53, Geriatric Depression Scale54,
BDI55), the PHQ-8 was selected for VITAL-DEP for the following reasons: 1) it has validity for identifying
depression in the context of medical comorbidity, including heart disease – thus, earning the joint endorsement
of the American Heart Association and American Psychiatric Association for depression screening in this
context56; 2) it has been validated against “gold-standard” interviews, such as the Composite International
Diagnostic Interview (CIDI)57 and Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-III-R (SCID)58; 3) a validated algorithm
can be used to determine whether a respondent meets criteria for MDD or other depressive disorder 39; 4)
continuous PHQ scores (range=0-24) provide a severity measure (with scores ≥15 and ≥20 signaling
moderate-high and high severity, respectively)59 and are sensitive to change60; 5) it has been validated in
cross-cultural settings and among community-dwelling elderly from diverse populations similar to that of
VITAL61-63, and shows no evidence of differential item functioning (also called item bias) among AfricanAmericans and other minorities64, 65 – which has been detected with other instruments66-68; 6) it is very brief and
minimizes participant burden, and given the need to address multiple health, disease, demographic, and
lifestyle characteristics in all VITAL participants – while minimizing total VITAL questionnaire length (it is only 2
double-sided pages) – the high information yield-to-space use ratio of the PHQ-8 is a key strength.
Diagnostic Interview Schedule (DIS)69. Two items from the DIS will be included; these have been selected for
use in other ancillary studies of large-scale RCTs, such as the WHI70, to detect symptoms of MDD and
dysthymia. These questions will allow us to establish whether individuals with a history of depression have had
clinical depression in the past 2 years – to better ensure inactive depression status and to identify persons who
have had symptoms consistent with dysthymia at any point in their lives, including currently. See VITAL 3.
Global questions. We will ask participants two global questions on prior clinical diagnosis and medication
and/or counseling treatment of depression. These items are adapted from questionnaires that have been
utilized for over 20 years in the Nurses’ Health Study (NHS) cohort involving >100,000 participants to
demonstrate strong relations of depression to numerous health outcomes71, 72. See VITAL 3.
3) Additional information from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS).
A critical advantage of VITAL that will be leveraged in the proposed VITAL-DEP study is linkage to the CMS
inpatient and outpatient databases. We will annually obtain Medicare data with free assistance by ResDAC
(www.resdac.unm.edu/Index.asp), a CMS contractor. We will carefully adhere to the data use agreement that
delineates confidentiality requirements of the Privacy Act (HIPAA) and data release policies and procedures.
The VITAL data coordinating center will: ensure data integrity and confidentiality, secure access to the CMS
data storage cabinets, and utilize a password-protected logon policy.
The following CMS data files will be utilized: 1) Medicare Provider Analysis and Review (MedPAR) Inpatient
and Skilled Nursing Facility File: contains inpatient records summarizing all services rendered from admission
through discharge, and includes diagnoses and procedure codes, DRG, dates of service, hospital /SNF
provider and beneficiary demographics; 2) Outpatient Standard Analytical File (SAF): contains final action

Detailed Protocol: VITAL-DEP: Depression Endpoint Prevention in the VITamin D and OmegA-3 TriaL
Olivia I. Okereke, MD, SM
03-27-12

claims data from hospital outpatient departments, rural clinics, outpatient rehabilitation facilities, community
mental health centers and other ambulatory centers, and includes diagnosis and procedures codes, dates of
service, outpatient provider numbers, and beneficiary demographics; 3) Part D Drug Event File: contains
prescription data that enable CMS to administer the Part D benefit, and when a beneficiary fills a prescription
under Medicare Part D, a prescription drug plan sponsor must submit a summary record to CMS. Additional
CMS data on diagnoses, procedures, and service dates will be available on both Home Health and Carrier
(e.g., non-institutional providers, including physicians, physician assistants, clinical social workers) SAFs.
ICD-9 codes will be used to identify depression (Table 3), medical comorbidities and exclusionary conditions:
bipolar or psychotic disorders; alcohol or drug abuse/dependence (last 12 months); cognitive/behavioral
disorders of childhood onset; unspecified or transient disorders, such as delirium73 (last 12 months, as delirium
can persist in 1/3 of elders after 6 months74); and any dementing disorder73. A complete list of codes that will
be used is provided in Appendix C. A recent validation study75 found “substantial agreement” (κ=0.67) between
ICD-9-CM codes and medical records for depression diagnoses: sensitivity=56.6 and specificity=99.4; positive
predictive value=92.8 and negative predictive value=94.4. Thus, as modest sensitivity of administrative data is
the primary concern, self-reports will further enhance depression detection.
Table 1. ICD-9 Codes Identifying Relevant Depressive Disorders
Psychiatric disorders

ICD-9

Depressive disorders
Major depressive disorder
Dysthymia
Depressive disorder not otherwise specified
Adjustment disorder (including depressed mood)

296.2, 296.20-296.26, 296.3, 296.30-296.36, 300.4, 309.0-309.1, 309.28, 311
296.2, 296.20-296.26, 296.3, 296.30-296.36
300.4
311
309.0-309.1, 309.28

In addition to ICD-9 codes, the CMS data include Current Procedural Terminology (CPT)76 codes. We will
query the CMS database for the new appearance of relevant CPT codes for mental health evaluations and/or
treatments. The range of common CPT codes for depressive disorders is: 90801-90829, 90846-90862, 90870,
90882, 90887, 96101, 99051, 99060, 99201-99255, 99304-99318. Thus, we will be able to utilize CMS data
linkage to obtain all of the following: 1) appearance of an ICD-9 code for a depressive disorder; 2) psychiatric
hospitalization and the associated ICD-9 code77; 3) outpatient mental health visits, for which ICD-9 diagnosis
and CPT service codes will be available; 4) prescription of antidepressants and/or other psychotropics and fill
dates. These codes can also be used to determine date of onset of depressive disorders (i.e., date of service).
4) Rationale for eligibility scheme (see Figure below).
The PHQ-8 will be used to assess depressive symptoms experienced over the past two weeks. Thus, even
among persons without a past history of depression diagnosis or treatment, it will be possible to exclude from
the study of incidence rates those whose current symptoms meet the threshold for a depressive disorder. The
combination of the PHQ-8, DIS items, global questions, and CMS data will enable us to determine which
persons have had a past history of depression and, thus, may be eligible for study of recurrence rates.
5) Procedure for identifying incident depression.
We will utilize a strategy that: 1) employs existing methods for case-finding that have been successfully used in
high-quality studies41, 78, 79 involving large samples of community-dwelling elders and 2) enhances these
methods with the rich CMS data at our disposal. On the baseline questionnaire supported by the parent VITAL
trial, participants will complete the PHQ-8, as well as the DIS and global items. To supplement these selfreports, VITAL-DEP proposes to fund CMS data queries for ICD-9 and CPT visit codes consistent with the
diagnosis of and/or treatment for a depressive disorder. A participant will be considered an incident case when
any of the following occurs: 1) PHQ-8 symptoms of MDD or other depressive disorder by algorithm, 2) selfreport of clinician diagnosis of depression, 3) self-report of DIS MDD symptoms, 4) self-report of DIS dysthymic

Detailed Protocol: VITAL-DEP: Depression Endpoint Prevention in the VITamin D and OmegA-3 TriaL
Olivia I. Okereke, MD, SM
03-27-12

symptoms, 5) presence of ICD-9 code for depression during an inpatient or outpatient encounter, with or
without a related mental health CPT code, 6) registration of prescription antidepressants. For any occurrence
of the above, date of onset will be assigned as follows: 1) questionnaire received date for self-reports, 2) CMS
visit date for clinician diagnostic codes, 3) dispense date of first antidepressant medication41. The earliest date
will be used to define onset41. Of note, we chose to use the PHQ-8 algorithm, rather than the ≥10 point cutoff,
as the algorithm can capture both MDD and other depressive disorders, which is consistent with our composite
depression endpoint39.
We will utilize a hierarchical approach41 for determining depression status and onset when 2 or more sources
of information indicate depression. Where available, the most specific method (e.g., ICD-9 code associated
with a mental health CPT code) will be preferred for determining case status. The onset of depression will be
that date which is linked to the preferred diagnosis method. When all methods are consistent with clinical
depression, the earliest date will be used to define onset41. A Depression Endpoint Committee, consisting of
Drs. Okereke, Chang, Reynolds and
Figure 1. Pathway for Determining Eligibility for Depression Incidence or Recurrence
Mischoulon, and in consultation with
Dr. Beekman, will arrive at consensus

Self-report of ever having clinician diagnosis or treatment of depression?
for all cases with conflicting reports

Self-report of symptoms consistent with dysthymia?

History of psychotropic treatment (excluding minor sedatives), psychiatric
from 2 or more sources.
diagnosis, and/or psychiatric hospitalization in CMS-linked data files?

6) Procedure for identifying
recurrent depression.
YES
NO
A person will be counted as a recurrent
case when any of the following occurs:
YES

Self-report of MDD symptoms in last 2 years?
1) PHQ-8 symptoms consistent with
YES

Dysthymia symptoms active in the last year?
MDD, 2) self-report of DIS MDD

New psychiatric diagnosis, hospitalization, or
symptoms, 3) two consecutive-year
non-sedative psychotropic in last 2 years?
self-reports of active dysthymia
EXCLUDE
EXCLUDE
symptoms, 4) presence of a new
NO
NO
mental health (CPT-coded) visit with
linked ICD-9 code for depressive
disorder during a clinical encounter, 5)
YES
YES

Current depression by PHQ-8?
hospitalization for depressive disorder,
6) new registration of prescription
NO
NO
antidepressants. The hierarchal
EXCLUDE
EXCLUDE
approach41 to duplicate reports will be
used. Notably, it is possible that
Eligible for
Eligible for
recurrence study
incidence study
incident cases of depression occurring
early in follow-up can remit during the
subsequent follow-up period. Technically, such persons – if remission is maintained for at least two years –
could later become recurrent cases. However, we will not be “double-counting” of cases, as we wish to
preserve original status from the time of the randomization. Thus, in analyses person-time will be counted from
randomization until event or censoring; we will stop counting person-time after incident depression.
7) Biochemical assays for VITAL-DEP.
Biochemical assays. VITAL will conduct the pre-randomization blood collection from VITAL participants.
VITAL-DEP proposes to fund all expenses related to assays of baseline 25(OH)D, EPA and DHA in 1,500
persons for a 1:2-matched nested case-control study of depression.
Blood levels of 25(OH)D will be assayed in the laboratory of Dr. Bruce Hollis at the Medical University of South
Carolina in Charleston (a Consultant on the VITAL parent grant). Circulating 25(OH)D will be determined by

Detailed Protocol: VITAL-DEP: Depression Endpoint Prevention in the VITamin D and OmegA-3 TriaL
Olivia I. Okereke, MD, SM
03-27-12

radioimmunoassay, as described elsewhere80, 81. The intra- and inter-assay coefficients of variation (CVs) are
<10%. We will utilize NIST Standard Reference Material (SRM) for 25(OH)D2 and 25(OH)D3 measurements
(SRM 972); Dr. Hollis will report his assay performance based on this SRM.
Plasma EPA, DHA and total n-6 fatty acids will be assayed in the laboratory of proposed Collaborator Cdr. Dr.
Joseph Hibbeln at the Laboratory of Membrane Biophysics and Biochemistry (LMBB), NIAAA, NIH. EPA and
DHA will be quantified using a method developed at LMBB and detailed elsewhere82, 83. This high-throughput
method employs fast gas chromatography and robotic transesterification to achieve fatty acid methyl ester
(FAME) resolution at high accuracy and efficiency, allowing rapid separation and quantification of fatty acids.
CVs are <10% for all plasma fatty acids.
8) Enhanced follow-up procedures.
We will institute enhanced follow-up procedures for those with elevated PHQ-8 scores39, 59 in order to provide
further assurance of participant safety. We will contact participants with elevated PHQ-8 scores (≥10 algorithm
cutoff)132, 136 at baseline and follow-up (6.2.c.) by sending mailed letters, where there is no self-report by the
participant of both recent diagnosis and treatment of depression on the questionnaire or an indication of such from
the CMS data. Among all participants who score PHQ-8 ≥15, we will send these same letters, regardless of
recent self-reported diagnosis or treatment for depression. A key goal is to ensure that participants are educated
about the need to discuss their mood with their local providers and, thus, initiate a path for ongoing evaluation
and/or treatment as necessary; thus, among participants who are randomized and continue in the study, we will only
send these letters when participants first report above-threshold scores. As part of the VITAL informed consent
procedure, participants will already have been notified that study investigators may need to contact them
directly with regard to development of endpoints and also to obtain releases to contact their PCPs. VITAL-DEP
will fund the effort of a research assistant who will assist the PI by coordinating with the Division to obtain
contact information of persons with high PHQ scores, working with data programmers to send out the letters,
and performing data tracking of the letters, as well as comments, questions or responses from participants in
response to the letters.
9) Data management.
Because participants will be followed solely by mail and telephone, the computing system is a critical feature of
effective follow-up. This system, which was developed and fine-tuned in our previous trials, tracks each
participant’s stage in the study and level of participation. It automatically generates letters, questionnaires, and
phone call reminders at the appropriate times. Names, addresses, telephone numbers, participation status,
and processing information are kept up to date, and data from questionnaires, letters, and phone calls are
entered into the study database. When talking to a participant to follow-up on elevated PHQ scores (see as
above), study personnel need ready access to identifying information, participation level, and the content of
previous study-related telephone calls. However, it is also critical that these data be available only to
authorized staff members. Our existing computer and security systems, which balance these considerations,
will be used in VITAL.
Questionnaire data will be optically scanned into the computer. The relevant software—TELEform and
Alchemy (Cardiff Software)—has been successfully used for several years in our studies. Out-of-range,
internally inconsistent, and unclear data are reviewed by a verifier who corrects misread variables. Forms that
cannot be scanned, and name and address changes, are entered using traditional double-entry procedures. All
data undergo additional within-form and across-time checks to verify accuracy. The database will be
maintained on a UNIX server. All data files will be backed up nightly, ensuring at least two current copies at all
times. Each month, a set of data files will be taken off-site for long-term storage.
VI.

BIOSTATISTICAL ANALYSIS

Detailed Protocol: VITAL-DEP: Depression Endpoint Prevention in the VITamin D and OmegA-3 TriaL
Olivia I. Okereke, MD, SM
03-27-12

PRIMARY AIMS: Incident and recurrent depression in the full cohort.
Analyses of treatment effects will be based on the intent-to-treat principle.
First, to ensure that balance is achieved by the randomization, baseline characteristics (e.g., age, gender,
race/ethnicity, physical activity, medical conditions, vitamin D and ω-3 intakes) will be compared by
randomized groups using 2-sample t or Wilcoxon rank sum tests for continuous variables and 2 statistics for
categorical variables.
Next, we will examine the main effects of intention-to-treat with vitamin D3 or with fish oil. Kaplan-Meier survival
curves will be used to determine cumulative depression incidence and recurrence for each treatment group
and its corresponding placebo group; the log-rank test will be used to compare the curves of agent vs. placebo.
We will use the Cox proportional hazards model to estimate the hazard ratios (HRs) and confidence intervals
(CIs) for each intervention using indicators for treatment and controlling for design variables (the other
intervention, age, and gender)85. Participants will be followed until the occurrence of the depression endpoint,
death, loss to follow-up, or the end of the trial, whichever comes first. We will test the proportionality
assumption (i.e., that of non-changing hazards ratios over time) both analytically and graphically. All analyses
will be conducted with SAS version 9.1 (SAS Institute, Cary, NC), and a 2-sided test with =0.05 will be used.
Finally, given potential concerns of participant non-adherence, drop-out, or case misclassification, additional
analyses will be carried out. For example, we will address effects of compliance by censoring follow-up when a
participant reports taking less than two-thirds of study medications over the previous year. In addition, because
CTSC participants will have medical histories and physicals, cognitive exams and psychiatric interviews, we
can directly observe86 the extent to which outcome misclassification (which can be of unknown direction87, 88)
occurs among medically-ill89, 90 or cognitively-impaired persons. We can then correct estimates of the treatment
effects and CIs in the full VITAL cohort using sensitivity analyses86, 91.
PRIMARY AIMS: Longitudinal change in depression scores in the full cohort.
The primary analysis will examine the main effects of randomized vitamin D3 or fish oil treatments on
depression scores (PHQ-8) over the 5-year follow-up period. We will use a mixed-effects model for the four
measures (years 0, 1, 3, and 5), including fixed effects for treatment, time and interaction between treatment
and time, that accounts for the correlations between repeated measures; we will estimate the mean differences
and 95% CIs. In secondary analyses, we will account for potential impact of initiation of antidepressants during
follow-up. For example, if an agent reduces depressive symptoms, then those receiving placebo may be more
likely to initiate antidepressants, which could lead to more conservative estimates of main effects on mood.
Analysis plan for categorical and continuous depression outcomes in the CTSC sub-cohort. As for our primary
aim analyses, we will use survival methods to test whether there are significant differences in risk of the
composite depression endpoint in the high-risk group, and of MDD in the subsyndromal group. For continuous
PHQ-8 scores, we will use a mixed-effects model, including the two PHQ-8 measurements as the dependent
variables and fixed effects for CTSC sites, treatment, time, and interaction between treatment and time, while
accounting for the correlation between repeated measures in the same participant. We will estimate 95% CIs
and P values for the two intervention main effects for change in depression scores between baseline and 2
years for each group. Given higher participant burden of in-person assessments, the CTSC sub-cohort may be
slightly more affected by loss-to-follow-up than the full cohort. Thus, if follow-up is less than complete, we will
conduct sensitivity analyses to estimate the effect under intention-to-treat92, 93.
Analysis plan for nested case-control study of plasma levels of 25(OH)D and EPA+DHA. Circulating 25(OH)D
is used as a reliable surrogate of vitamin D status94, 95. We will test the relative risk of having deficient plasma
25(OH)D levels (<50 nmol/L, or 20 ng/mL)95-97 among cases compared to controls; deficiency prevalence is

Detailed Protocol: VITAL-DEP: Depression Endpoint Prevention in the VITamin D and OmegA-3 TriaL
Olivia I. Okereke, MD, SM
03-27-12

~35-40%98. Using interaction terms, we will address whether response to treatment agent is modified by
baseline levels of 25(OH)D (deficient vs. sufficient) or EPA+DHA (above vs. below median). We will also
explore associations of low baseline plasma ω-3:ω-6 ratios with depression.
Analysis plan for effect modification and approach to exploratory analyses. With multiplicative interaction
terms, we will study whether treatment effects for each intervention differ by the other intervention; AfricanAmerican race, compared to Whites (for D3); age; gender; baseline vitamin D and ω-3 intake (above vs. below
median); medical comorbidity89, 90, 99; and geographic region/latitude and physical activity (for D3). Parameters
will be estimated with the Proc Mixed procedure of SAS, using a 2-sided test with =0.05.
Power Calculations.
Our calculations show high statistical power for testing of all Primary Aims. All power calculations assume 80%
compliance with the study agents, use a Stata (Stata Corporation, College Station, TX) program developed for
multi-arm clinical trial designs100, 101, and are based on the log-rank test and adjusted appropriately for design
features, such as arbitrary time-to-event distribution, nonproportional hazards, non-uniform rates of entry, loss
to follow-up, and treatment changes from allocated treatment100.
Rationale for estimates of lifetime and current depression prevalence.
As power calculations of incidence and recurrence of depression will necessarily depend on lifetime and
current prevalence of depression, we carefully reviewed the literature to arrive at age-, ethnicity- and genderinformed estimates of prevalence in our target population.
Lifetime prevalence of depressive disorders among men aged 60+ and women aged 65+ will determine the
numbers of participants eligible for incidence and recurrence. Data from the NCS-R indicated 11.9% lifetime
prevalence of depressive disorders102. However, gender-specific data from the Cache County study103 report
slightly higher lifetime prevalence among healthy, US elders (20.4% in women; 9.6% in men). One study
reported slightly lower lifetime prevalence (6.3%) of depressive disorders among older blacks, compared to
whites, but no difference by gender among blacks14, 104.
Current prevalence of late-life depression was estimated at 13.34% in a meta-analysis 105; there is little data
directly comparing whites and minorities14, 104, 106. However, Blazer et al.106 found no differences by race in the
9% current prevalence in the EPESE study. Thus, we used gender-specific estimates of lifetime prevalence103,
and the current prevalence from Blazer et al.106 In other research involving large cohorts, we observed a
history of any depression or antidepressant use among 8% of men aged 65+ in the Physicians’ Health
Study107, and in the Nurses’ Health Study, women aged 65+ had lifetime prevalence of depression or
antidepressant use of 19.2% and current prevalence of 9.9% – supporting our estimates for VITAL. Alternative
calculations show similarly high power even with a lower number of cases (e.g., 85% power for RR=0.80 when
the number eligible for recurrence=2,200).
Rationale for estimates of depression incidence and recurrence rates.
Incidence rates (per 1000 person-years [p-y]) for combined depressive symptoms and syndromes were 19.3
(23.4 and 14.7 in women and men) in Luijendijk et al.41 – very similar to those reported in the Cache County108
and Goteborg49 studies. Rates are not available by race/ethnicity. We used the slightly more conservative rates
from Luijendijk et al41.
The rates reported by Luijendijk and colleagues41 are the only available directly estimated recurrence rates
(i.e., as a function of person-time at risk) for late-life depression among community-dwelling participants. This
group reported a recurrence rate of 65.6/1000 p-y for combined depression; this rate translates to ~30%

Detailed Protocol: VITAL-DEP: Depression Endpoint Prevention in the VITamin D and OmegA-3 TriaL
Olivia I. Okereke, MD, SM
03-27-12

recurrence over 5 years, and thus is comparable to recurrence reported in smaller outpatient samples of
adults109-111. We applied these gender-specific rates41.
Table 2. Power for effects of a single agent on incident depression in VITAL, over 5 years of follow-up
RR†

Total

Women

Men

Non-Hispanic
White

Minority

AfricanAmerican

0.90

15,470 ‡
52.6%

7,244 ‡
33.5%

8,226 ‡
24.9%

10,071 ‡
37.3%

5,399 ‡
22.3%

3,868 ‡
17.2%

0.85

86.7%

64.3%

49.5%

69.9%

44.3%

33.6%

0.80
0.75

98.6%
>99.9%

88.1%
97.8%

74.8%
91.5%

91.8%
98.9%

68.9%
87.4%

54.6%
74.8%

0.70

>99.9%

99.8%

98.1%

>99.9%

96.5%

89.1%

0.65

>99.9%

>99.9%

99.8%

>99.9%

99.4%

96.5%

>99.9%

>99.9%

>99.9%

99.2%

0.60
>99.9%
>99.9%
†Expected RR; ‡ Expected total number of eligible participants.

RR†

Table 3. Power for effects of a single agent on recurrent depression in VITAL, over 5 years of follow-up
Total
Women
Men
Non-Hispanic
Minority
White

AfricanAmerican

0.90

2,730 ‡
38.2%

1,856 ‡
30.8%

874 ‡
12.7%

1,777 ‡
26.7%

953 ‡
16.4%

683 ‡
12.9%

0.85

70.9%

59.6%

23.5%

52.6%

31.6%

24.0%

0.80

92.1%

84.1%

38.5%

77.7%

51.3%

39.2%

0.75

98.9%

96.1%

55.7%

92.9%

70.9%

56.5%

0.70

>99.9%

99.5%

72.2%

98.6%

85.9%

72.9%

0.65

>99.9%

>99.9%

85.2%

99.8%

94.7%

85.6%

0.60

>99.9%

>99.9%

93.4%

>99.9%

98.5%

93.6%

†Expected RR; ‡ Expected total number of eligible participants.

Power calculations in the CTSC sub-cohort.
For depression prevention among high-risk participants, eligible persons are those without non-anxiety Axis I
history, including dementia112, or with past depression in remission for at least one year79. Of an estimated 855
eligible, high-risk people will comprise ~60% (n=513)113. High depression rates have been observed with key
risk factors114, 115: e.g., Robinson et al.115 found a 22.4% 1-year depression incidence in the placebo group of a
prevention RCT among elders following acute stroke. Power was based on an expected 2-year incidence of
25%38 in the placebo group. Of note, investigators have achieved RR reductions of 60% (i.e., an RR of 0.4) in
prevention trials among high-risk persons79. We will have 80% and >95% power to detect RRs for a single
agent of 0.6 and 0.5, respectively.
For MDD prevention among participants with subsyndromal symptoms, we considered the reported 21.3%
current prevalence of subsyndromal depression among persons aged 65+ years113. Subsyndromal depression
has been found among 13% of blacks and 28% of whites116. Thus, persons with subsyndromal symptoms will
likely comprise 23% (n=196) of eligibles. One group117 recently observed an 18-month MDD incidence of 25%
among primary care adults with subsyndromal symptoms. Power was based on a 2-year risk of 35% in the
placebo group; we will have 80% and >90% power to detect respective RRs of 0.5 and 0.4. If 2-year risk is
higher (e.g., 45%), there will be 80% and >90% power to detect respective RRs of 0.6 and 0.5.
Rationale for power calculations in the nested case-control study. Using the most conservative incidence and
recurrence rate estimates for depressive syndrome41, we calculated the expected number of cases (n~900) –
or ~500 with blood samples. To enhance power, cases will be matched 2:1 with controls on 5-year age group,
gender, follow-up time and season of blood draw. We assumed 35 or 40% prevalence of vitamin D deficiency
among controls98; for ω-3, we based power on low levels (bottom 25% or 33% of the control distribution). We

Detailed Protocol: VITAL-DEP: Depression Endpoint Prevention in the VITamin D and OmegA-3 TriaL
Olivia I. Okereke, MD, SM
03-27-12

will have ≥80% power to detect RR=1.4 and >90% power to detect RR=1.5. A recent study118 reported odds
ratios for mood disorder of 2.6 for 25(OH)D=10-19.9 ng/mL, and 11.7 for 25(OH)D <10/ng/mL.
Power for additive and synergistic effects of the agents. Assuming a 2-sided  of 0.05, we calculated power of
single agent effects ranging from 0.90 to 0.75, and RRs for interactions from 1.00 (i.e., additive) to 0.60. If both
agents are effective, but act independently, power tends to decrease, due to a smaller number of events. If the
agents interact, power will be affected by the extent of the interaction. We will have ≥80% power to detect
important interactions (e.g., additional risk reduction of ≥30% for single agent RRs from 0.90 to 0.75).
Power for continuous outcomes119, 120. We used the SD of change in PHQ scores from two 1-year-apart
assessments in a sample of non-depressed adults59 and calculated power to detect a 25% difference – a
clinically meaningful difference – compared to the mean of non-depressed persons at baseline59. We will have
>99% power for Primary Aims and detecting differences by vitamin D3 among African-Americans. Mean
differences may be greater among the higher-risk CTSC samples; we will have >99% power to detect a 30%
difference in the high-risk group, and 90% power to detect a 30% difference among subsyndromal participants.
VII.

RISKS AND DISCOMFORTS
There is the possibility of social/psychological risk that could result from inadvertent disclosure of confidential
information from the questionnaires or blood tests. However, we have many safeguards in place to avoid this
possibility, and we have never had an inadvertent breach of confidentiality in any of our trials.
The potential risk of disclosure of confidential information is guarded against by maintaining completed
questionnaires and blood test results in locked offices accessible by authorized personnel only. In
questionnaire data files, participants are identified only by study ID. Subject identifiers are stored in separate
computer files with password protection, and results will be presented only in the aggregate. In addition,
employees involved with the proposed study will be asked to sign a form agreeing not to disclose any
information to which they might have access, regardless of their personal perception about its confidentiality.
Each employee of the study who has access to study data or has contact with subjects participates in an
institutional (Brigham and Women‘s Hospital) human subjects educational program, which consists of
reviewing regulatory and informational documents pertaining to human subjects research; passing a test on
ethical principles and regulations governing human subjects research; and signing a statement of commitment
to the protection of human subjects. Finally, all such employees are required to participate in HIPAA training.

VIII.

POTENTIAL BENEFITS
For the majority of participants, there will be few direct benefits from participating in this primary prevention
study other than the awareness of being involved in a large endeavor to answer relevant and timely questions
regarding the possible benefit of vitamin D and fish oil.
During the trial itself, we will receive inquiries from the participants regarding both specific and general health
concerns. We will respond to each of those questions, primarily directing participants to published sources or
recommending that they see their local health provider who is familiar with their medical history. In addition,
participants may benefit from the letters sent to those reporting high levels of depressive symptoms. Many
such persons might not otherwise be referred to their local providers for further evaluation and management of
depression.
The purported health benefits of vitamin D and marine omega-3 fatty acids are receiving increasing attention in
the medical literature and the popular press. Sales of vitamin D supplements and omega-3 fatty acid

Detailed Protocol: VITAL-DEP: Depression Endpoint Prevention in the VITamin D and OmegA-3 TriaL
Olivia I. Okereke, MD, SM
03-27-12

supplements at U.S. stores have increased substantially in recent years. However, definitive data on health
benefits and risks of these agents are lacking. Findings from this large clinical trial will clarify the role of vitamin
D and marine omega-3 fatty acid supplements in the prevention of depression will help guide individual
decisions, clinical recommendations, and public health guidelines.
IX.

MONITORING QUALITY ASSURANCE
A. SAFETY MONITORING
An independent Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) will be assembled, consisting of experts in clinical
trials, epidemiology, biostatistics, relevant clinical areas of cancer and CVD, cognitive function and NIH
representatives. The Physicians’ Health Study, the Women’s Health Study, and the Women’s Antioxidant and
Folic Acid Cardiovascular Study (the main trials as well as ancillary outcome studies) have been monitored by
the same DSMB since their inception. As two of these trials have ended and the third is in its last years, we will
ask our DSMB members if they would be willing to also monitor VITAL. If they are not able to do so, we will
consult with them in assembling a new DSMB. Current VITAL DSMB members are Drs. Lawrence S. Cohen,
Theodore Colton, Mark A. Espeland, I. Craig Henderson, Alice H. Lichtenstein, Rebecca A. Silliman, and
Nanette Wenger (chair). Ex officio members are Drs. Josephine Boyington (NHLBI), Rebecca B. Costello
(ODS), Cindy D. Davis (NCI), Peter Greenwald (NCI), and Lawrence Fine (NHLBI). In addition, we will
nominate experts in depression clinical trials and psychiatric outcome measurement to the VITAL DSMB. The
DSMB Chair has strongly endorsed the importance of such experts on the DSMB, and their presence will
ensure a high level of acumen for monitoring differences in depression by treatment arm.
The VITAL Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) will be charged with ensuring that the safety of
participants is protected and that the scientific goals of the study are being met. The VITAL DSMB will include
psychiatric expertise and will monitor differences by treatment arm of ancillary study outcomes, including
depression, and will be empowered to terminate the trial based on evidence of substantial harm or benefit. To
support those purposes, the DSMB will review any proposed amendments to the study protocol, examine the
progress of the trial and the unblinded data on study endpoints, perform expedited review of all serious
adverse events (i.e., events meeting the FDA definition of Serious Adverse Events, such as any fatal event
including suicide, immediately life-threatening event, or permanently or substantially disabling event), perform
ongoing monitoring of drop-outs and non-serious adverse events, determine whether study procedures should
be changed or the study should be halted for reasons related to the safety of participants, and perform periodic
review of the completeness and validity of data to be used for analysis of safety and efficacy. The DSMB will
also ensure participant privacy and research data confidentiality.
The DSMB will annually examine the progress of the trial and the unblinded data on study endpoints and
possible adverse effects to recommend continuation, alteration of study design, or early termination, as
appropriate. Interim trial results will be assessed with the Haybittle-Peto rule, adjusting for multiple looks. In
this method, interim results are compared to a z-score of 3 standard deviations (p=0.0027) throughout the trial.
The final results may then be interpreted as having close to nominal significance levels. This rule appropriately
requires very strong evidence for early stopping, is more conservative than the Pocock and O’Brien-Fleming
rules and the alpha-spending function, and can be conducted at convenient times without inducing statistical
complexity. The monitoring rules121, 122 will serve solely as guidelines in decisions regarding continuation or
stopping of treatment arms. All decisions will be made after examining the totality of evidence, including other
trial data, on these agents.
B. MONITORING OF DATA
Redundancies will be built into the data processing systems to insure accurate recording of data and proper
follow-up. All research forms will be scanned in and the data read by a character recognition software program

Detailed Protocol: VITAL-DEP: Depression Endpoint Prevention in the VITamin D and OmegA-3 TriaL
Olivia I. Okereke, MD, SM
03-27-12

(Teleform). Out-of-range, internally inconsistent, and unclear data will be reviewed by a verifier who will edit
misread variables. Forms that cannot be scanned, and name and address changes, will be entered using
traditional double-entry procedures. All data will undergo additional within-form and across-time checks to
verify accuracy. Following data entry, all questionnaire responses that require additional follow-up for missing
data, participant comments on the form or for endpoint validation will be manually reviewed to insure correct
processing and accurate follow-up. Address changes received from the post office or from participants will be
manually keyed by data entry personnel and the resultant files compared and verified.

X.

REFERENCES
1.
2.
3.
4.

5.
6.
7.

8.
9.

10.
11.
12.
13.
14.

15.
16.
17.
18.

Mathers CD, Loncar D. Projections of global mortality and burden of disease from 2002 to 2030. PLoS
Med. 2006;3(11):e442.
Murray CJ, Lopez AD. Alternative projections of mortality and disability by cause 1990-2020: Global
Burden of Disease Study. Lancet. 1997;349(9064):1498-1504.
Ustün TB, Ayuso-Mateos JL, Chatterji S, Mathers C, Murray CJ. Global burden of depressive disorders
in the year 2000. Br J Psychiatry. 2004;184:386-392.
Egede LE. Major depression in individuals with chronic medical disorders: prevalence, correlates and
association with health resource utilization, lost productivity and functional disability. Gen Hosp
Psychiatry. 2007;29(5):409-416.
Cuijpers P. Examining the effects of prevention programs on the incidence of new cases of mental
disorders: the lack of statistical power. Am J Psychiatry. 2003;160(8):1385-1391.
Committee on Prevention of Mental Disorders: Institute of Medicine. Reducing Risks for Mental
Disorders: Frontiers for Preventive Intervention Research: National Academy Press; 1994.
Hoogendijk WJ, Lips P, Dik MG, Deeg DJ, Beekman AT, Penninx BW. Depression is associated with
decreased 25-hydroxyvitamin D and increased parathyroid hormone levels in older adults. Arch Gen
Psychiatry. 2008;65(5):508-512.
Harris S, Dawson-Hughes B. Seasonal mood changes in 250 normal women. Psychiatry Res.
1993;49(1):77-87.
Dumville JC, Miles JN, Porthouse J, Cockayne S, Saxon L, King C. Can vitamin D supplementation
prevent winter-time blues? A randomised trial among older women. J Nutr Health Aging.
2006;10(2):151-153.
Young SN. Has the time come for clinical trials on the antidepressant effect of vitamin D? J Psychiatry
Neurosci. 2009;34(1):3.
Berk M, Sanders KM, Pasco JA, et al. Vitamin D deficiency may play a role in depression. Med
Hypotheses. 2007;69(6):1316-1319.
Moore CE, Murphy MM, Holick MF. Vitamin D intakes by children and adults in the United States differ
among ethnic groups. J Nutr. 2005;135(10):2478-2485.
Harris SS. Vitamin D and African Americans. J Nutr. 2006;136(4):1126-1129.
Williams DR, González HM, Neighbors H, et al. Prevalence and distribution of major depressive
disorder in African Americans, Caribbean blacks, and non-Hispanic whites: results from the National
Survey of American Life. Arch Gen Psychiatry. 2007;64(3):305-315.
Reynolds CF 3rd. Preventing depression in old age: it's time. Am J Geriatr Psychiatry. 2008;16(6):433434.
Alegría M, Chatterji P, Wells K, et al. Disparity in depression treatment among racial and ethnic minority
populations in the United States. Psychiatr Serv. 2008;59(11):1264-1272.
Hibbeln JR. Fish consumption and major depression. Lancet. 1998;351:1213.
Tanskanen A, Hibbeln JR, Hintikka J, Haatainen K, Honkalampi K, Viinamaki H. Fish consumption,
depression, and suicidality in a general population. Arch General Psychiatry. 2001;58:512-513.

Detailed Protocol: VITAL-DEP: Depression Endpoint Prevention in the VITamin D and OmegA-3 TriaL
Olivia I. Okereke, MD, SM
03-27-12

19.
20.
21.
22.
23.

24.
25.
26.
27.
28.

29.

30.
31.

32.

33.

34.

35.

36.
37.
38.
39.

Tanskanen A, Hibbeln JR, Tuomilehto J, et al. Fish consumption and depressive symptoms in the
General population in Finland. Psychiatric Services. 2001;52:529-531.
Timonen M, Horrobin D, Jokelainen J, Laitinen J, Herva A, Rasanen P. Fish consumption and
depression: the Northern Finland 1966 birth cohort study. J Affect Disord. 2004;82:447-452.
Tiemeier H, Van Tuijl RH, Hofman A, Kiliaan AJ, Breteler MMB. Plasma fatty acid composition and
depression are associated in the elderly: the Rotterdam Study. Am J Clin Nutr. 2003;78:40-46.
Mamalakis G, Tornaritis M, Kafatos A. Depression and adipose essential polyunsaturated fatty acids.
Prostaglandins Leukot Essent Fatty Acids. 2002;67:311-318.
Mamalakis G, Kiriakakis M, Tsibinos G, Kafatos A. Depression and adipose polyunsaturated fatty acids
in the survivors of the seven countries study population of Crete. Prostaglandins Leukot Essent Fatty
Acids. 2004;70:495-501.
Jacka FN, Pasco JA, Kotowicz MA, Nicholson GC, Berk M. Dietary omega-3 fatty acids and depression
in a community sample. Nutritional Neuroscience. 2004;7:101-106.
Hakkarainen R, Partonen T, Haukka J, Virtamo J, Albanes D, Lonnqvist J. Is low dietary intake of
omega-3 fatty acids associated with depression? Am J Psychiatry. 2004;161:567-569.
Suzuki S, Akechi T, Kobayashi M, et al. Daily omega-3 fatty acid intake and depression in Japanses
patients with newly diagnosed lung cancer. Br J Cancer. 2004;90:787-793.
Nemets B, Stahl Z, Belmaker RH. Addition of omega-3 fatty acid to maintenance medication treatment
for recurrent unipolar depressive disorder. Am J Psychiatry. 2002;159:477-479.
Peet M, Horrobin DF. A dose-ranging study of the effects of ethyl-eicosapentaenoate in patients with
ongoing depression despite apparently adequate treatment with standard drugs. Arch General
Psychiatry. 2002;59:913-919.
Llorente AM, Jensen CL, Voigt RG, Fraley JK, Berretta MC, Heird WC. Effect of maternal
docosahexaenoic acid supplementation on postpartum depression and information processing. Am J
Obstet Gynecol. 2003;188(5):1348-1353.
Su KP, Huang SY, Chiu CC, Shen WW. Omega-3 fatty acids in major depressive disorder. A
preliminary double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. Eur Neuropsychopharmacol. 2003;13(4):267-271.
Fontani G, Corradeschi F, Felici A, Alfatti F, Migliorini S, Lodi L. Cognitive and physiological effects of
Omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid supplementation in healthy subjects. Eur J Clin Invest.
2005;35(11):691-699.
Silvers KM, Woolley CC, Hamilton FC, Watts PM, Watson RA. Randomised double-blind placebocontrolled trial of fish oil in the treatment of depression. Prostaglandins Leukot Essent Fatty Acids.
2005;72(3):211-218.
Lucas M, Asselin G, Mérette C, Poulin MJ, Dodin S. Ethyl-eicosapentaenoic acid for the treatment of
psychological distress and depressive symptoms in middle-aged women: a double-blind, placebocontrolled, randomized clinical trial. Am J Clin Nutr. 2009;89(2):641-651.
Rogers PJ, Appleton KM, Kessler D, et al. No effect of n-3 long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acid (EPA
and DHA) supplementation on depressed mood and cognitive function: a randomised controlled trial. Br
J Nutr. 2008;99(2):421-431.
van de Rest O, Geleijnse JM, Kok FJ, et al. Effect of fish-oil supplementation on mental well-being in
older subjects: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. Am J Clin Nutr. 2008;88(3):706713.
Appleton KM, Hayward RC, Gunnell D, et al. Effects of n-3 long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids on
depressed mood: systematic review of published trials. Am J Clin Nutr. 2006;84(6):1308-1316.
Richardson AJ. n-3 Fatty acids and mood: the devil is in the detail. Br J Nutr. 2008;99(2):221-223.
Sriwattanakomen R, Ford AF, Thomas SB, et al. Preventing depression in later life: translation from
concept to experimental design and implementation. Am J Geriatr Psychiatry. 2008;16(6):460-468.
Kroenke K, Strine TW, Spitzer RL, Williams JB, Berry JT, Mokdad AH. The PHQ-8 as a measure of
current depression in the general population. J Affect Disord. 2009;114(1-3):163-173.

Detailed Protocol: VITAL-DEP: Depression Endpoint Prevention in the VITamin D and OmegA-3 TriaL
Olivia I. Okereke, MD, SM
03-27-12

40.

41.
42.
43.
44.

45.

46.
47.
48.
49.
50.

51.

52.
53.
54.
55.
56.

57.
58.
59.

Sheehan DV, Lecrubier Y, Sheehan KH, et al. The Mini-International Neuropsychiatric Interview
(M.I.N.I.): the development and validation of a structured diagnostic psychiatric interview for DSM-IV
and ICD-10. J Clin Psychiatry. 1998;59 Suppl 20:22-33;quiz 34-57.
Luijendijk HJ, van den Berg JF, Dekker MJ, et al. Incidence and recurrence of late-life depression. Arch
Gen Psychiatry. 2008;65(12):1394-1401.
American Psychiatric Association. Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth
Edition. Fourth ed. Washington, DC: APA; 1994.
Korten A, Henderson S. The Australian National Survey of Mental Health and Well-Being. Common
psychological symptoms and disablement. Br J Psychiatry. 2000;177:325-330.
Hybels C, Blazer D, Pieper C. Toward a threshold for subthreshold depression: an analysis of
correlates of depression by severity of symptoms using data from an elderly community survey.
Gerontologist. 2001;41:357-365.
Albert CM, Cook NR, Gaziano JM, et al. Effect of folic acid and B vitamins on risk of cardiovascular
events and total mortality among women at high risk for cardiovascular disease: a randomized trial.
JAMA. 2008;299(17):2027-2036.
Sesso HD, Buring JE, Christen WG, et al. Vitamins E and C in the prevention of cardiovascular disease
in men: the Physicians' Health Study II randomized controlled trial. JAMA. 2008;300:2123-2133.
Lee IM, Cook NR, Gaziano JM, et al. Vitamin E in the primary prevention of cardiovascular disease and
cancer: the Women's Health Study: a randomized controlled trial. JAMA. 2005;294(1):56-65.
Ridker PM, Cook NR, Lee IM, et al. A randomized trial of low-dose aspirin in the primary prevention of
cardiovascular disease in women. N Engl J Med. 2005;352(13):1293-1304.
Paĺsson SP, Ostling S, Skoog I. The incidence of first-onset depression in a population followed from
the age of 70 to 85. Psychol Med. 2001;31(7):1159-1168.
Spitzer RL, Kroenke K, Williams JB. Validation and utility of a self-report version of PRIME-MD: the
PHQ primary care study. Primary Care Evaluation of Mental Disorders. Patient Health Questionnaire.
JAMA. 1999;282(18):1737-1744.
McGuire LC, Strine TW, Allen RS, Anderson LA, Mokdad AH. The Patient Health Questionnaire 8:
current depressive symptoms among U.S. older adults, 2006 Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance
System. Am J Geriatr Psychiatry. 2009;17(4):324-334.
Kroenke K, Spitzer RL. The PHQ-9: a new depression and diagnostic severity measure. Psychiatric
Ann. 2002;32:509–521.
Radloff LS. The CES-D scale: A self report depression scale for research in the general population.
Applied Psychological Measurement. 1977;1:385-401.
Yesavage JA, Brink TL, Rose TL, et al. Development and validation of a geriatric depression screening
scale: a preliminary report. J Psychiatr Res. 1983;17:37-49.
Beck AT, Ward CH, Mendelson M, Mock J, Erbaugh J. An inventory for measuring depression. Arch
Gen Psychiatry. 1961;4:225-236.
Lichtman JH, Bigger JT Jr, Blumenthal JA, et al. Depression and coronary heart disease:
recommendations for screening, referral, and treatment: a science advisory from the American Heart
Association Prevention Committee of the Council on Cardiovascular Nursing, Council on Clinical
Cardiology, Council on Epidemiology and Prevention, and Interdisciplinary Council on Quality of Care
and Outcomes Research: endorsed by the American Psychiatric Association. Circulation.
2008;118(17):1768-1775.
World Health Organization. Composite International Diagnostic Interview (CIDI), Version 1.0. Geneva,
Switzerland: World Health Organization; 1990.
Spitzer RL, Williams JBW, Gibbon M, et al. Structured Clinical Interview for the DSM-III-R. Washington,
DC: American Psychiatric Press; 1990.
Kroenke K, Spitzer RL, Williams JB. The PHQ-9: validity of a brief depression severity measure. J Gen
Intern Med. 2001;16(9):606-613.

Detailed Protocol: VITAL-DEP: Depression Endpoint Prevention in the VITamin D and OmegA-3 TriaL
Olivia I. Okereke, MD, SM
03-27-12

60.
61.

62.

63.
64.

65.

66.
67.
68.

69.
70.
71.

72.
73.

74.
75.

76.
77.
78.
79.
80.

Löwe B, Unützer J, Callahan CM, Perkins AJ, Kroenke K. Monitoring depression treatment outcomes
with the patient health questionnaire-9. Med Care. 2004;42(12):1194-1201.
Poongothai S, Pradeepa R, Ganesan A, Mohan V. Reliability and validity of a modified PHQ-9 item
inventory (PHQ-12) as a screening instrument for assessing depression in Asian Indians (CURES-65).
J Assoc Physicians India. 2009;57:147-152.
Diez-Quevedo C, Rangil T, Sanchez-Planell L, Kroenke K, Spitzer RL. Validation and utility of the
patient health questionnaire in diagnosing mental disorders in 1003 general hospital Spanish inpatients.
Psychosom Med. 2001;63(4):679-686.
Yeung A, Fung F, Yu SC, et al. Validation of the Patient Health Questionnaire-9 for depression
screening among Chinese Americans. Compr Psychiatry. 2008;49(2):211-217.
Huang FY, Chung H, Kroenke K, Delucchi KL, Spitzer RL. Using the Patient Health Questionnaire-9 to
measure depression among racially and ethnically diverse primary care patients. J Gen Intern Med.
2006;21(6):547-552.
Hepner KA, Morales LS, Hays RD, Edelen MO, Miranda J. Evaluating differential item functioning of the
PRIME-MD mood module among impoverished black and white women in primary care. Womens
Health Issues. 2008;18(1):53-61.
Iwata N, Turner RJ, Lloyd DA. Race/ethnicity and depressive symptoms in community-dwelling young
adults: a differential item functioning analysis. Psychiatry Res. 2002;110(3):281-289.
Cole SR, Kawachi I, Maller SJ, Berkman LF. Test of item-response bias in the CES-D scale.
experience from the New Haven EPESE study. J Clin Epidemiol. 2000;53(3):285-289.
Yang FM, Jones RN. Center for Epidemiologic Studies-Depression Scale (CES-D) item response bias
found with Mantel-Haenszel method was successfully replicated using latent variable modeling. J Clin
Epidemiol. 2007;60(11):1195-1200.
Robins LN, Helzer JE, Croughan J, Ratcliff KS. National Institute of Mental Health Diagnostic Interview
Schedule: its history, characteristics, and validity. Arch Gen Psychiatry. 1981;38:381-389.
Wassertheil-Smoller S, Shumaker S, Ockene J, et al. Depression and cardiovascular sequelae in
postmenopausal women: the Women's Health Initiative (WHI). Arch Intern Med. 2004;164(3):289-298.
Whang W, Kubzansky LD, Kawachi I, et al. Depression and risk of sudden cardiac death and coronary
heart disease in women: results from the Nurses' Health Study. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2009;53(11):950958.
Kroenke CH, Bennett GG, Fuchs C, et al. Depressive symptoms and prospective incidence of
colorectal cancer in women. Am J Epidemiol. 2005;162(9):839-848.
Fick DM, Kolanowski AM, Waller JL, Inouye SK. Delirium superimposed on dementia in a communitydwelling managed care population: a 3-year retrospective study of occurrence, costs, and utilization. J
Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2005;60(6):748-753.
Kiely DK, Marcantonio ER, Inouye SK, et al. Persistent delirium predicts greater mortality. J Am Geriatr
Soc. 2009;57(1):55-61.
Quan H, Li B, Saunders LD, et al. Assessing validity of ICD-9-CM and ICD-10 administrative data in
recording clinical conditions in a unique dually coded database. Health Serv Res. 2008;43(4):14241441.
American Medical Association. Current Procedural Terminology 2004: Professional Edition. Chicago,
IL: AMA Press; 2003.
Prince JD, Akincigil A, Kalay E, et al. Psychiatric rehospitalization among elderly persons in the United
States. Psychiatr Serv. 2008;59(9):1038-1045.
Smit F, Ederveen A, Cuijpers P, Deeg D, Beekman A. Opportunities for cost-effective prevention of
late-life depression: an epidemiological approach. Arch Gen Psychiatry. 2006;63(3):290-296.
van't Veer-Tazelaar PJ, van Marwijk HW, van Oppen P, et al. Stepped-care prevention of anxiety and
depression in late life: a randomized controlled trial. Arch Gen Psychiatry. 2009;66(3):297-304.
Hollis BW, Kamerud JQ, Selvaag SR, Lorenz JD, Napoli JL. Determination of vitamin D status by
radioimmunoassay with an 125I-labeled tracer. Clin Chem. 1993;39:529-533.

Detailed Protocol: VITAL-DEP: Depression Endpoint Prevention in the VITamin D and OmegA-3 TriaL
Olivia I. Okereke, MD, SM
03-27-12

81.
82.
83.
84.
85.
86.
87.
88.
89.
90.

91.
92.
93.
94.
95.
96.

97.
98.

99.
100.

101.
102.

103.

Hollis BW, Napoli JL. Improved radioimmunoassay for vitamin D and its use in assessing vitamin D
status. Clin Chem. 1985;31:1815-1819.
Masood A, Stark KD, Salem N Jr. A simplified and efficient method for the analysis of fatty acid methyl
esters suitable for large clinical studies. J Lipid Res. 2005;46(10):2299-2305.
Masood MA, Salem N Jr. High-throughput analysis of plasma fatty acid methyl esters employing robotic
transesterification and fast gas chromatography. Lipids. 2008 43(2):171-180.
Brown GK, Bruce ML, Pearson JL. High-risk management guidelines for elderly suicidal patients in
primary care settings. Int J Geriatr Psychiatry. 2001;16(6):593-601.
Cox DR. Regression models and life tables (with discussion). J R Stat Soc B. 1972;34:187-220.
Fleiss JL, Levin B, Cho Paik M. Statistical Methods for Rates and Proportions. 3rd ed. New York: John
Wiley and Sons; 2003.
Höfler M. The effect of misclassification on the estimation of association: a review. Int J Methods
Psychiatr Res. 2005;14(2):92-101.
Espeland MA, Hui SL. A general approach to analyzing epidemiologic data that contain
misclassification errors. Biometrics. 1987;43(4):1001-1012.
Charlson ME, Pompei P, Ales KL, MacKenzie CR. A new method of classifying prognostic comorbidity
in longitudinal studies: development and validation. J Chronic Dis. 1987;40(5):373-383.
Miller MD, Paradis CF, Houck PR, et al. Rating chronic medical illness burden in geropsychiatric
practice and research: application of the Cumulative Illness Rating Scale. Psychiatry Res.
1992;41(3):237-248.
Fox MP, Lash TL, Greenland S. A method to automate probabilistic sensitivity analyses of misclassified
binary variables. Int J Epidemiol. 2005;34(6):1370-1376.
Cook NR. Imputation strategies for blood pressure data nonignorably missing due to medication use.
Clin Trials. 2006;3:411-420.
Little RJA, Rubin DB. Statistical Analysis with Missing Data. 2nd ed. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons;
2002.
Norman AW. From vitamin D to hormone D: fundamentals of the vitamin D endocrine system essential
for good health. Am J Clin Nutr. 2008;88(2):491S-499S.
Holick MF. Vitamin D deficiency. N Engl J Med. 2007;357.(3):266-281.
Bischoff-Ferrari HA, Giovannucci E, Willett WC, Dietrich T, Dawson-Hughes B. Estimation of optimal
serum concentrations of 25-hydroxyvitamin D for multiple health outcomes. Am J Clin Nutr. 2006;84:1828.
Malabanan A, Veronikis IE, Holick MF. Redefining vitamin D insufficiency. Lancet 351. 1998;351:805806.
Harris SS, Soteriades E, Stina-Coolidge JA, Mudgal S, Dawson-Hughes B. Vitamin D insufficiency and
hyperparathyroidism in a low income, multiracial elderly population. J Clin Endocrinol Metab.
2000;85:4125–4130.
Klabunde CN, Potosky AL, Legler JM, Warren JL. Development of a comorbidity index using physician
claims data. J Clin Epidemiol. 2000;53(12):1258-1267.
Barthel FM, Babiker A, Royston P, Parmar MK. Evaluation of sample size and power for multi-arm
survival trials allowing for non-uniform accrual, non-proportional hazards, loss to follow-up and crossover. Stat Med. 2006;25:2521-2542.
Barthel FM, Royston P, Babiker A. A menu-driven facility for complex sample size calculation in
randomized controlled trials with a survival or a binary outcome: Update. The Stata J. 2005;5:123-129.
Kessler RC, Berglund P, Demler O, Jin R, Merikangas KR, Walters EE. Lifetime prevalence and age-ofonset distributions of DSM-IV disorders in the National Comorbidity Survey Replication. Arch Gen
Psychiatry. 2005;62(6):593-602.
Steffens DC, Skoog I, Norton MC, et al. Prevalence of depression and its treatment in an elderly
population: the Cache County study. Arch Gen Psychiatry. 2000;57(6):601-607.

Detailed Protocol: VITAL-DEP: Depression Endpoint Prevention in the VITamin D and OmegA-3 TriaL
Olivia I. Okereke, MD, SM
03-27-12

104.

105.
106.

107.
108.

109.
110.

111.
112.
113.
114.
115.
116.
117.
118.
119.

120.
121.
122.

Ford BC, Bullard KM, Taylor RJ, Toler AK, Neighbors HW, Jackson JS. Lifetime and 12-month
prevalence of Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition disorders among
older African Americans: findings from the National Survey of American Life. Am J Geriatr Psychiatry.
2007;15(8):652-659.
Beekman AT, Copeland JR, Prince MJ. Review of community prevalence of depression in later life. Br J
Psychiatry. 1999;174:307-311.
Blazer DG, Landerman LR, Hays JC, Simonsick EM, Saunders WB. Symptoms of depression among
community-dwelling elderly African-American and white older adults. Psychol Med. 1998;28(6):13111320.
Okereke OI, Kang JH, Cook NR, et al. Type 2 diabetes and cognitive decline in two large cohorts of
community-dwelling older adults. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2008;56:1028-1036.
Norton MC, Skoog I, Toone L, et al. Three-year incidence of first-onset depressive syndrome in a
population sample of older adults: the Cache County study. Am J Geriatr Psychiatry. 2006;14(3):237245.
Gonzales LR, Lewinsohn PM, Clarke GN. Longitudinal follow-up of unipolar depressives: an
investigation of predictors of relapse. J Consult Clin Psychol. 1985 53(4):461-469.
Shea MT, Elkin I, Imber SD, et al. Course of depressive symptoms over follow-up. Findings from the
National Institute of Mental Health Treatment of Depression Collaborative Research Program. Arch
Gen Psychiatry. 1992;49(10):782-787.
Thase ME, Simons AD, McGeary J, et al. Relapse after cognitive behavior therapy of depression:
potential implications for longer courses of treatment. Am J Psychiatry. 1992;149(8):1046-1052.
Plassman BL, Langa KM, Fisher GG, et al. Prevalence of dementia in the United States: the aging,
demographics, and memory study. Neuroepidemiology. 2007;29(1-2):125-132.
Schoevers RA, Smit F, Deeg DJ, et al. Prevention of late-life depression in primary care: do we know
where to begin? Am J Psychiatry. 2006;163(9):1611-1621.
Rovner BW, Casten RJ, Hegel MT, Leiby BE, Tasman WS. Preventing depression in age-related
macular degeneration. Arch Gen Psychiatry. 2007;64(8):886-892.
Robinson RG, Jorge RE, Moser DJ, et al. Escitalopram and problem-solving therapy for prevention of
poststroke depression: a randomized controlled trial. JAMA. 2008;299(20):2391-2400.
Cohen CI, Magai C, Yaffee R, Walcott-Brown L. Racial differences in syndromal and subsyndromal
depression in an older urban population. Psychiatr Serv. 2005;56(12):1556-1563.
Vuorilehto MS, Melartin TK, Isometsä ET. Course and outcome of depressive disorders in primary care:
a prospective 18-month study. Psychol Med. 2009;39(10):1697-1707.
Wilkins CH, Sheline YI, Roe CM, Birge SJ, Morris JC. Vitamin D deficiency is associated with low mood
and worse cognitive performance in older adults. Am J Geriatr Psychiatry. 2006;14(12):1032-1040.
Muller KE, LaVange LM, Ramey SL, Ramey CT. Power calculations for general linear multivariable
models including repeated measures applications. Journal of the American Statistical Association.
1992;87:1209-1226.
Castelloe JM. Sample size computations and power analysis with the SAS System. Proceedings of the
Twenty-Fifth Annual SAS Users Group International Conference. Cary, NC: SAS Institute Inc.; 2000.
Haybittle JL. Repeated assessment of results in clinical trials of cancer treatment. Br J Radiol.
1971;44:793-797.
Peto R, Pike MC, Armitage P, et al. Design and analysis of randomized clinical trials requiring
prolonged observation of each patient: Introduction and design. Br J Cancer. 1976;34:585-612.

