RATE-AF Trial Protocol                                                        Version 3.0, 25th July 2019


        Participants will give their explicit consent for the movement of their consent form, giving permission
        for the Trials Office to be sent a copy. This will be used to perform in-house monitoring of the
        consent process.

        The Investigator must maintain documents not for submission to the Trials Office (e.g. Participant
        Identification Logs) in strict confidence. In the case of specific issues and/or queries from the
        regulatory authorities, it will be necessary to have access to the complete trial records, provided
        that participant confidentiality is protected.


        The Trials Office will maintain the confidentiality of all participants’ data and will not disclose
        information by which participants may be identified to any third party other than those directly
        involved in the treatment of the participant and organisations for which the participant has given
        explicit consent for data transfer (e.g. competent authority, sponsor). Representatives of the
        RATE-AF Trials Office and sponsor may be required to have access to participant’s notes for
        quality assurance purposes but participants should be reassured that their confidentiality will be
        respected at all times.



        17        Insurance and Indemnity

        The University of Birmingham has in place Clinical Trials indemnity coverage for this trial which
        provides cover to the University for harm which comes about through the University’s, or its staff’s,
        negligence in relation to the design or management of the trial and may alternatively, and at the
        University’s   discretion    provide    cover    for non-negligent    harm     to     participants.

        With respect to the conduct of the trial at the Clinical Site and other clinical care of the patient,
        responsibility for the care of the patients remains with the NHS organisation responsible for the
        Clinical Site and is therefore indemnified through the NHS Litigation Authority.

        The University of Birmingham is independent of any pharmaceutical company, and as such it is not
        covered by the Association of the British Pharmaceutical Industry (ABPI) guidelines for participant
        compensation.



        18        Dissemination and Publication

        Regular newsletters will keep collaborators informed of trial progress and regular meetings will be
        held to report the progress of the trial and to address any problems encountered in the conduct of
        the trial. The CI will coordinate dissemination of data from this trial. All publications and
        presentations, including abstracts, relating to the main trial will be authorised by the RATE-AF
        TMG. The results of the analysis will be published in the name of the RATE-AF Collaborative
        Group in a peer reviewed journal (provided that this does not conflict with the journal’s policy).

        Named authors must satisfy the International Committee of Medical Journal Editors (ICMJE) criteria
        for authorship (contribute to drafting of the article or revision for important intellectual content),
EudraCT No.: 2015-005043-13                                                                     Page 59 of 69
