RATE-AF Trial Protocol                                                         Version 3.0, 25th July 2019


            x   Antiplatelet therapy.
            x   Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors or angiotensin receptor blockers.
            x   Aldosterone antagonists.

            x   Diuretics (loop, thiazide, potassium-sparing, others).
            x   Nitrates.
            x   Other anti-hypertensive/anti-anginal therapy.

            x   Statins.
            x   Other lipid-lowering medication.
            x   Diabetic medication and insulin.

            x   Asthma/COPD medication (including inhalers).
            x   Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents.


        9.4 Physical Examination

        Physical and vital signs will be assessed at all up-titration and trial visits. In most cases, a targeted
        physical examination will be performed, comprising of cardiovascular elements as summarised
        below:
            x   Heart rate (manual palpation at radial artery and apex).
            x   Heart sounds.

            x   Lung auscultation.
            x   Assessment of jugular venous pressure and/or peripheral oedema.
            x   Other focused examinations according to symptoms and complaints.
            x   Blood pressure (two measurements at the right brachial in a seated position preferred, using
                a validated oscillometric device).
            x   Height (Baseline Visit only), weight (all listed visits) and waist circumference (Baseline Visit;
                defined as the narrowest point between ribs and hips when viewed from the front after
                exhaling to the nearest centimetre).


        9.5 Patient Reported Outcomes

        9.5.1 Choice of Outcomes and Qualitative Research
        A systematic review (according to and in collaboration with the COnsensus-based Standards for
        the selection of health Measurement Instruments, COSMIN74) is underway to evaluate PROMs in
        AF, with a focus on psychometric properties including internal consistency, reliability, and
        measurement error. Additional assessment and practical evaluation of PROMs will follow
        published guidance75, 76, complementing qualitative research using patient focus groups, surveys



EudraCT No.: 2015-005043-13                                                                      Page 37 of 69
