RATE-AF Trial Protocol

Version 3.0, 25th July 2019

6 hours. Digoxin has a large volume of distribution and approximately 20-30% of digoxin in blood
is bound to plasma proteins. Metabolism is minimal but variable, with the majority of drug excreted
unchanged in the urine by glomerular filtration and tubular secretion. With normal renal function,
the elimination half-life is 34-44 hours which is prolonged in patients with renal failure by two to
threefold. Dose adjustment is unnecessary in patients with hepatic impairment. Therapeutic
plasma concentrations of digoxin have been described as 0.5-2.0 ng/mL.70 In digoxin-naïve
patients with normal renal function, approximately seven days are required to reach steady-state
therapeutic concentrations if a loading dose is omitted. As such, the majority of clinicians prescribe
one or two loading doses, totalling 500 to 1000 μg over 24 hours.
Caution is recommended in patients with electrolyte disturbance (due to increased risk of toxicity)
and reduced doses are recommended in patients with renal impairment. There are no concerns in
pregnancy or with breast-feeding, although dose adjustment may be required.
Contraindications for digoxin therapy include heart block, accessory pathway supraventricular
tachycardia and a current diagnosis of obstructive hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, myocarditis or
constrictive pericarditis.
Digoxin has been associated with a number of adverse effects, although data from randomised
trials show little difference in comparison to placebo, apart from cases of toxicity (2% versus 0.9%
respectively in the DIG trial of patients with HF)71. The most common side effects are
gastrointestinal upset, dizziness, blurred vision, headache and rash. In toxic states (serum levels
>2 ng/mL), digoxin is pro-arrhythmic and can aggravate heart failure, particularly with co-existent
hypokalaemia. In cases of overdose, repeated early doses of activated charcoal may be given to
reduce absorption and in severe toxicity, digoxin-specific antibody fragments are available as an
intravenous infusion.
In rigorous assessment, drug interactions with digoxin have proved inconsistent.72 Serum digoxin
concentrations are increased by amiodarone, dronedarone, propafenone and quinidine but
increased bioavailability with CCB and certain antibiotics (such as erythromycin and tetracycline)
only occur in selected patients. The risk of toxicity increases with drugs that cause electrolyte
disturbances, such as thiazide and loop diuretics.
Bisoprolol
Following oral administration of Bisoprolol, the absolute bioavailability is approximately 80%, first
pass metabolism of 20% and 30% protein binding. Peak plasma concentrations occur within 2-4
hours, the elimination half-life is 9-12 hours and steady state is attained within 5 days. Elimination
occurs equally by renal and non-renal pathways with about 50% of the dose remaining unchanged
in the urine.
Caution is recommended in patients with first-degree heart block, portal hypertension, diabetes, a
history of obstructive airways disease, myasthenia gravis, a history of hypersensitivity and
psoriasis, although many cardiologists use beta-blockers frequently in these groups with
appropriate supervision. In pregnancy, beta-blockers may cause intra-uterine growth restriction,
EudraCT No.: 2015-005043-13

Page 29 of 69

