RATE-AF Trial Protocol

Version 3.0, 25th July 2019

The objectives of this sub-study are exploratory – our hypothesis is that periodic ambulatory heart
rate and physical activity monitoring will demonstrate a higher correlation with changes in SF36
physical functioning, cardiac function and NTpro-BNP than conventional ECG-derived heart rate,
IPAQ score or 6-minute walk distance.99 An analysis plan for this sub-study will be agreed before
access to data.
Pseudo-anonymised data will also contribute to the BigData@Heart Consortium, which in
combination with other studies and registries across the European Union aims to redefine clinical
phenotypes of common cardiovascular diseases. Collaboration with the RATE-AF trial will allow
development of the remote monitoring platform for capturing patient-related outcomes in this
patient group. We will demonstrate the feasibility of the platform for running further studies in the
BigData@Heart Consortium, designed to have future impact on improving treatment outcomes in
patients with AF.

9.10 Heart rate and sympathetic nerve function
A secondary objective of the RATE-AF trial is to compare heart rate control in patients randomised
to beta-blockers and digoxin using 24-hour ambulatory ECG. However, heart rate is not only
affected by therapy, but also intrinsic variability in control by the autonomic nervous system.
Sympathetic activity is elevated in cardiovascular conditions and could have a profound effect on
heart rate response in individual patients, potentially masking the effects of therapy.100 The
proposed assessment uses a fine Tungsten needle (human hair width) that records nerve activity
from a sympathetic nerve, performed at the baseline visit and then at the final uptitration visit.
MSNA is an established research investigation which is virtually painless, safe and allows direct
measurement of sympathetic tone. Our team have successfully used this technique in a range of
conditions.101, 102
10-15 patients from each treatment group will be asked to participate in a sub-study of muscle
sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA). Patients will be selected that lack existing impairment (or
potential impairment) of the nervous system, excluding those with diabetes, other medical
conditions affecting autonomic function (for example, Sjogren's syndrome, systemic lupus
erythematosus and rheumatoid arthritis), prior stroke and previous neurological conditions
(Parkinson's disease, dementia, multiple sclerosis or Guillain-Barre syndrome). Potential
participants will be given a specific Patient Information Leaflet written by the RATE-AF Patient and
Public Involvement Team, and asked to sign the RATE-AF optional consent form.

Protocol:
Patients will be studied supine, in uniform conditions in a clinical environment. They will be
monitored with continuous heart rate and beat-to-beat blood pressure in response to handgrip
exercises and other simple sympathetic stimulation exercises (Portapres, Finapres Medical
Systems). Recordings of postganglionic, multiunit MSNA will be obtained using a sterile 200μm
tungsten microelectrode placed into the peroneal nerve at the fibular head and a reference
electrode inserted subcutaneously at a site 2–3 cm distal. Prior to digitization, raw signals are
EudraCT No.: 2015-005043-13

Page 45 of 69

