Cudkowicz (PI) HEALEY ALS Platform Trial: Master Statistical Analysis Plan   Version 3.0, 06 Feb 2023


total score measured at the Baseline Visit, that difference divided by the number of months from
onset of symptom weakness due to ALS to the date of the Baseline Visit. The number of months
will be calculated as the difference in days from onset of symptomatic weakness to the Baseline
Visit multiplied by 12 / 365.25. The date of onset of symptomatic weakness will be imputed as
the fifteenth day of a month if not specified more precisely.

5.2    SVC
Slow vital capacity (SVC) is the maximum volume of air that can be slowly exhaled after slow,
maximal inhalation. Trained technicians coach participants through 3 to 5 maneuvers using a
spirometer. A minimum of 2 completed SVC maneuvers are required to calculate an estimate of
maximum SVC for a given participant visit. A single maximum vital capacity reported by a
pulmonary function lab and obtained by either a slow or forced maneuver is also acceptable. The
maximum volume expired is converted to percent of predicted normal using normal values for
forced vital capacity (FVC). FVC normal values are calculated based on sex, age, height, and
ethnicity using equations published by the Global Lung Function Initiative (GLI, Quanjer et al.
2012). Higher values indicate greater respiratory function.
Age will be calculated as number of days from date of birth to the date of a given SVC
assessment divided by 365.25. The following correspondence between self-identified race and
race defined by GLI classification will be used:
      Self-identified Race                         GLI-defined Race
      American Indian or Alaska Native             Mixed/Other
      Asian                                        South East Asian
      Black or African American                    African American
      Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander    Mixed/Other
      White                                        Caucasian
      Unknown                                      Caucasian
      Not reported                                 Caucasian
      More than one race indicated                 Mixed/Other

5.3    HHD and Grip Strength
Manual muscle testing by hand-held dynamometry (HHD) assesses isometric muscle strength by
recording force generated against a hand-held dynamometer placed against a given limb by a
trained evaluator. Each muscle is tested with a standard beginning position, usually midway
between maximum flexion or extension of the muscle being studied, and with the dynamometer
placed at a defined position. Trained evaluators coach participants through 3 to 5 maximal
exertions for each muscle and record the maximum force observed in pounds. Evaluators note if
participants are not able to overcome the force exerted for a given muscle. Conversely, a value of
0 is recorded for a given muscle if the participant cannot assume the testing position due to
weakness or can attain the position but cannot exert measurable force.
The following 11 muscles are tested bilaterally by HHD: shoulder flexion, elbow flexion, elbow
extension, wrist extension, abductor pollicis brevis contraction, abductor digiti minimi
contraction, first dorsal interosseous contraction, hip flexion, knee flexion, knee extension, and
ankle dorsiflexion. Grip strength is tested bilaterally by Jamar hand dynamometer. Between
HHD and hand grip, 24 muscles or muscle groups are tested. The force recorded for each muscle


                                                                                        Page 14 of 62
