Cudkowicz (PI) HEALEY ALS Platform Trial: Master Statistical Analysis Plan   Version 3.0, 06 Feb 2023


The increase or decrease in the rate of progression for placebo participants for all regimens
compared to that of the analysis regimen is the parameter exp(ߟ௥ ). For the analysis
regimen (r=1), the effect is assumed to be 1 (ߟଵ = 0).

The log of the regimen-specific random effects, ߟ௥ , will be modelled using a hierarchical
model to allow for dynamic borrowing within the shared control across different regimens:

                                    ߟ௥ ~ܰ൫0, ߪఎଶ ൯; ‫ = ݎ‬2, … ܰ௥ ;
                                     1/ߪఎଶ ~‫(ܽ݉݉ܽܩ‬1, . 05ଶ ).

The gamma (shape and rate parameterization) hyper-prior is informed based on estimated
between-trial variability in rates of progression for ALSFRS-R from historical trials.

2.2.4 Time-Trend Effects ALSFRS-R

The log of the time-trend effects will be modelled using a simple normal dynamic linear
model where the distribution of each time-trend effect is normal with a mean equal to the
effect at the previous time period and a standard deviation that has a uniform hyper-prior:

                                             ߩ଴ = 0;
                                   ߩௗ ~ܰ൫ߩௗିଵ , ߪఘଶ ൯; ݀ = 1, … ‫;ܦ‬
                                         ߪఘ ~ܷ݂݊݅(0,2).


2.2.5 Baseline Covariate Effects ALSFRS-R

Covariates included in the primary efficacy analysis are: time since onset, pre-baseline
slope of ALSFRS-R, baseline log-transformed serum NfL level, baseline riluzole use,
baseline edaravone use, and baseline sodium phenylbutyrate/taurursodiol use as indicated
in participants’ concomitant medication logs. All covariates will be standardized by
subtracting their means using all participants in the regimen-specific analysis data set
(regimen-specific treatment and control as well as additional shared control). Missing
baseline covariates for a participant will be imputed using the mean value across all
participants in the applicable analysis dataset (regimen-specific treatment and control as
well as additional shared control for the primary analysis). For any baseline covariate that
is transformed for analysis, means will be calculated after transformation. Covariate effects
are modelled as exp(ߜ௖ ), ܿ = 1, … , ‫ܥ‬, accounting for covariate-explainable variability in the
rate of ALSFRS-R progression due to participant-specific baseline covariates.

Prior distributions for the log of the covariate effects are independent and identically
distributed as:

                                     ߜ௖ ~ܰ(0, 1ଶ ); ܿ = 1, … ‫ܥ‬.



                                                                                        Page 39 of 62
