Cudkowicz (PI) HEALEY ALS Platform Trial: Master Statistical Analysis Plan     Version 3.0, 06 Feb 2023


x     AST or ALT >3x ULN with TBL >2x ULN
x     AST or ALT >3x ULN with TBL >2x ULN and ALP <2x ULN (potential Hy’s Law cases)
where ULN is upper level of normal and all levels are measured on the same day.

6. Statistical Methodology

6.1     Analysis Sets
The following analysis sets will be used for testing efficacy, safety, and tolerability endpoints of
a specific focal regimen:
x     Efficacy Full Analysis Set (FAS): Participants who were randomized within the focal
      regimen plus placebo participants from specified regimens who had an opportunity to
      complete placebo-controlled follow-up, classified according to their randomized treatment
      assignment. Observations made after premature permanent discontinuation of study drug are
      included in this sample, should such participants remain on study. Observations completed
      after regimen data lock will be excluded. Participants determined to not meet ALS diagnostic
      criteria are excluded.
x     Efficacy Concurrent-controls (ECC) Set: The subset of participants in the FAS analysis set
      who were randomized within 180 days prior to the first randomization for the applicable
      regimen and within 180 days after the last randomization for the applicable regimen,
      exclusive.
x     Efficacy Regimen-only (ERO) Set: The subset of participants in the FAS analysis set who
      were randomized within a given regimen.
x     Efficacy Common Mode of Administration (ECM) Set: The subset of participants in the FAS
      analysis set who are in regimens in which study drug is administered by the same route as the
      focal regimen (including oral, subcutaneous injection, intravenous infusion).
x     Efficacy Per-protocol (EPP) Set: The subset of participants in the FAS analysis set who
      initiated study treatment and who meet other requirements for protocol compliance as
      specified in the R-SAP, classified according to the treatment they actually received. This
      sample may include placebo participants from no other, some other, or all other regimens and
      may be restricted to those who would have been eligible for the applicable regimen as
      specified in the R-SAP. If a participant's data are truncated for inclusion in the EPP analysis
      set due to a time-dependent event (e.g., non-adherence to protocol-specified dosing, initiation
      of a prohibited medication, initiation of a medication approved for treatment of ALS),
      clinical events observed after the censoring event may be included in the EPP analysis set as
      specified in the R-SAP. Data from placebo participants shared from other regimens will not
      be truncated due to non-adherence to protocol-specified dosing.
x     Safety Full (STF) Set: Participants who initiated treatment within the focal regimen plus
      placebo participants from specified regimens who are not known to be ineligible for the focal
      regimen and who initiated treatment in their respective regimen, classified according to the
      treatment they actually received. Observations made after premature permanent
      discontinuation of study drug are included in this sample, should such participants remain on
      study. Observations completed after regimen data lock are excluded.

                                                                                          Page 17 of 62
