Cudkowicz (PI) HEALEY ALS Platform Trial: Master Statistical Analysis Plan    Version 3.0, 06 Feb 2023


6.6.2    Safety Labs
The absolute level and the absolute change from baseline for each safety laboratory assay will be
summarized as means, standard deviations, medians, and ranges at each visit by treatment group
in all safety samples. The proportion of participants with abnormal levels classified to a toxicity
grade based on quantitative grading using National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common
Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0, the proportion with abnormal
and clinically significant safety lab levels, and the proportion with possible DILI by each
definition will be summarized by treatment group by visit and for any post-baseline visit in all
safety samples. The proportion of participants with abnormal levels by CTCAE grade, the
proportion with lab levels that are below the lower limit of normal, within normal limits, or
above the upper limit of normal will be presented as shift tables vs. the status of each participant
at baseline for each visit and for any post-baseline visit by treatment group in all safety samples.
6.6.3    ECG Results
The absolute level and the absolute change from baseline for each ECG parameter will be
summarized as means, standard deviations, medians, and ranges at each visit by treatment group
in all safety samples. The proportion of participants with abnormal and clinically significant
ECG findings or parameter values of special concern will be summarized by finding for each
treatment group by visit and at any post-baseline visit in all safety samples. The parameter values
of special concern are the following: QTcF > 480 ms, QTcF > 500 ms, increase from baseline in
QTcF > 60 ms, increase from baseline in PR > 25% to a value above 200 ms, increase from
baseline in HR > 25% to a value below 50 bpm, increase from baseline in HR > 25% to a value
above 100 bpm, and increase from baseline in QRS > 25% to a value above 110 ms.
6.6.4    Vital Signs and Weight
The absolute level and the absolute change from baseline for vital signs and weight will be
summarized as means, standard deviations, medians, and ranges at each visit by treatment group
in all safety samples. Changes in weight will also be analyzed as an efficacy endpoint by
repeated-measures and random-slopes mixed models in the FAS, ECC, ERO, ECM, and EPP
samples.
6.6.5    Suicidality
The proportion of participants who report any post-baseline suicidal ideation or any post-baseline
suicidal behavior on the C-SSRS will be summarized by treatment group in all safety samples.
Suicidal behaviors will include: actual attempts, non-suicidal self-injurious behavior, interrupted
attempts, aborted attempts, preparatory acts or behaviors, and completed suicide. The most
severe ideation, maximal frequency, maximal duration, minimal controllability, minimal
deterrents, maximal reasons for ideation, maximal actual lethality or medical damage, and
maximal potential lethality will be summarized by treatment group in all safety samples.

6.7     Other Analyses
6.7.1    Participant Disposition
All participants consented to the Master Protocol between the time of the first and last consent of
a participant assigned to a regimen included in the FAS analysis set will be summarized as a
single set for the following events: consented to the Master Protocol, failed screening for the
Master Protocol, other reasons not assigned to a regimen (including timing out of the screening

                                                                                         Page 28 of 62
