Cudkowicz (PI) HEALEY ALS Platform Trial: Master Statistical Analysis Plan    Version 3.0, 06 Feb 2023


6.4     Interim Analysis
Unless otherwise specified in the RSA, regimens will be considered for early stopping for
success or futility at regular intervals. The default design for a regimen will include stopping
early only for futility. Details of the interim analysis schedule, the early stopping rules, and
documentation of operating characteristics under a range of scenarios, are provided in the
MPRDR (Appendix 1 to this M-SAP). Any regimen-specific deviations are described in the
applicable RSA and R-SAP.

6.5     Secondary Efficacy Analyses
6.5.1    Hierarchical Testing
Primary inference for secondary efficacy endpoints will be based on analysis of the FAS analysis
set using a repeated-measures linear mixed model for functional endpoints (see Section 6.5.2
below) and by Kaplan-Meier product-limit estimates and log-rank test for survival (see Section
6.5.5 below). The default sequence for testing is the following:
      1. Change from baseline to Week 24 in upper limb muscle strength as assessed
         isometrically using HHD and grip strength and measured as average percent change from
         baseline among maneuvers with non-zero strength at baseline in the FAS analysis set,
      2. Change from baseline to Week 24 in respiratory function as assessed by slow vital
         capacity (SVC) and measured as percent predicted using GLI normal values in the FAS
         analysis set,
      3. Change from baseline to Week 24 in lower limb muscle strength as assessed
         isometrically using HHD and measured as average percent change from baseline among
         maneuvers with non-zero strength at baseline in the FAS analysis set, and
      4. Survival defined as freedom from death and permanent assisted ventilation (PAV) from
         baseline to Week 24 in the FAS analysis set.
RSAs may specify a different sequence of secondary endpoints to evaluate using a closed testing
procedure or another method for controlling family-wise type 1 error rate.
If the primary analysis indicates a significant slowing in disease progression from the Bayesian
shared-parameter model of function and survival, then each secondary efficacy endpoint would
be declared significant in the specified sequence using a criterion of two-tailed p < 0.05. After
the first failure to declare significance, no endpoints lower in the hierarchy can be significant.
Nominal comparison-wise p-values for secondary efficacy endpoints will also be reported.
6.5.2    Repeated-measures Model
Treatment groups of a given regimen will also be compared for progression of continuous
efficacy and selected safety endpoints (ALSFRS-R total score, ALSFRS-R domain scores, HHD
upper extremity, lower extremity, and global average percentages, SVC percent-predicted, serum
creatinine, serum NfL, and weight) using a repeated-measures linear mixed model in the FAS,
ECC, ERO, ECM, and EPP samples. The model will include fixed terms for discrete visit,
treatment group, treatment group × visit interaction, time since symptom onset and time since
symptom onset × visit interaction, delta-FRS and delta-FRS × visit interaction, baseline log-
transformed serum NfL level and baseline log-transformed serum NfL level × visit interaction,
baseline riluzole use and baseline riluzole × visit interaction, baseline edaravone use and baseline

                                                                                         Page 19 of 62
