Cudkowicz (PI) HEALEY ALS Platform Trial: Master Statistical Analysis Plan   Version 3.0, 06 Feb 2023


concurrent shared controls will include all available data from all participants randomized
between Month 6 and Month 30 within the platform across all regimens.

For interim analyses, all available data at the time of the analysis will be used including
data on participants who have not had the opportunity to complete 24 weeks of follow-up
(denoted ongoing). The phrase “opportunity to complete 24 weeks” is meant to describe
participants who have at least 24 weeks of time elapse since their baseline visit.
For final primary analyses, data from ongoing participants will not be used, but
participants from open regimens who have had the opportunity to complete 24 weeks of
follow-up may be used. To minimize risk of potential unblinding of data for regimens
outside of the analysis regimen that have not yet had last patient last visit (open regimens)
if shared control data from open regimens are used within the primary analysis, no
participant-level data will be shared and no summaries of the data will be provided from
which individual participants could be identified until all regimens that are included in the
shared control for the analysis regimen have been closed (last patient last visit) and locked.
For this reason, regimens may choose to use shared control data only from regimens that
have been closed (last patient last visit) to avoid delay in release of participant-level data.
The shared control population that will be included in the final primary analysis for each
regimen will be prespecified in each regimen-specific appendix.
Finally, the master protocol allows for additional and more restrictive inclusion/exclusion
criteria within a regimen specific appendix (RSA). However, these additional
inclusion/exclusion criteria will be limited and will be allowed based only on restrictions
due to safety or mechanism of action. Major additional RSA inclusion/exclusion criteria
that can be assessed for all participants entering the platform will be used to subset the
shared control to include only shared control participants that meet these major additional
RSA inclusion/exclusion criteria. Major additional RSA inclusion/exclusion criteria that
will be used to subset the shared control will be limited to those criteria that have the
potential to lead to significant differences in the patient population in terms of the rate of
disease progression within the primary analysis population and will be prespecified within
each RSA. The first three regimens enrolling within the platform did not include any major
additional inclusion/exclusion criteria.



2.2 Bayesian Shared Parameter Model of Function and Mortality

The primary analysis for each analysis regimen is a Bayesian shared parameter model of
function and survival with the following components:

           x   Function: Bayesian repeated measures model of ALSFRS-R at baseline
               through 24 weeks for all participants who have not experienced mortality
               (per definition of the composite survival endpoint). Participants who have
               experienced mortality will not contribute to the functional component of the
               analysis. The Bayesian repeated measures model of ALSFRS-R measures the


                                                                                        Page 35 of 62
