Cudkowicz (PI) HEALEY ALS Platform Trial: Master Statistical Analysis Plan    Version 3.0, 06 Feb 2023



5.0    Regimen Only Population: All participants randomized to the active treatment arm
    or placebo arm within the analysis regimen only. Because the population only involves
    one regimen, certain aspects of the analysis model will require modification (e.g. no
    regimen-specific effects).4 Sensitivity Analysis for Handling Missing Data

The Bayesian repeated measures component of ALSFRS-R naturally accommodates
differential length of follow-up and utilizes all available longitudinal data for each
participant who has not been censored due to mortality. Additionally, we provide the
following sensitivity analyses to missing (not due to mortality) ALSFRS-R data within the
Bayesian repeated measures component of ALSFRS-R.

   x   Impute all missing ALSFRS-R based on last observation carried forward.
   x   Impute all missing ALSFRS-R as 0 for both treatment and control arms.
   x   Impute all missing ALSFRS-R as the worst value observed within the combined
       treatment and control arms for both treatment and control arms.
5.0    Impute all missing ALSFRS-R as the worst value observed within the respective
    treatment/control arms.5 Shared Parameter Model Sensitivity Analyses

The following analyses will be conducted to test the sensitivity of the results to the primary
efficacy model assumptions.

   x   The functional component of the primary analysis model, the Bayesian repeated
       measures model of ALSFRS-R, will be updated to allow for different rates of
       progression within each 4-week interval (k) to assess the sensitivity of the results to
       the linearity assumption in the primary efficacy analysis. Let ܻ௜,௝,௞ denote the
       ALSFRS-R at visit j for participant i. The ALSFRS-R component is then defined as:

                                                                               ‫ܧ‬௜,௝,௞ ‫ כ‬12
ܻ௜,௝ = (ߙ௥(௜),௧(௜) + ߛ௜ ) െ ෍ ߤఉ,௞ ‫ כ‬exp൫ߚ௜ + ߠ௧(௜) + ߜܺ௜ + ߩௗ(௜) + ߟ௥(௜) ൯ ‫ כ‬൬            ൰ + ߳௜,௝ ;
                                                                                    52
                          ௞ୀଵ:଺
                                                        ଶ
                                            ߳௜௝ ~ ܰ൫0, ߪ௥(௜),௧(௜) ൯.

       Where ‫ܧ‬௜,௝,௞ is the number of weeks of exposure for subjecI i in visit j within each 4-
       week interval k=1,2,…,6; ߤఉ,௞ is the overall slope for time interval k; and ߚ௜ is a
       common subject-level effect to the slope over time periods. The following prior
       distributions are placed on the overall mean slope per time period and the subject-
       level effect to the slope:

                                         ߤఉ,௞ ~ܰ(1,1ଶ ); ݇ = 1: 6;
                                                 ଶ
                                       ߚ௜ ~ܰ൫0, ߪఉ,௧(௜) ൯; ݅ = 1, … ܰ;
                                        ߪఉ,் ~ܷ݂݊݅(0,2); ܶ = 0,1.

       Prior distributions for all other parameters remain the same as the primary
       analysis.


                                                                                         Page 43 of 62
