Cudkowicz (PI) HEALEY ALS Platform Trial: Master Statistical Analysis Plan   Version 3.0, 06 Feb 2023


is converted to a percentage change from baseline among muscles with non-zero strength at
baseline. Individual percentages are averaged together to yield upper extremity, lower extremity,
and global average percentages. Higher values indicate greater strength retention.
HHD data will also be summarized as time to loss of strength. HHD0 and HHD0[2] will be
defined as the times from the Baseline Visit to the first and second post-baseline occurrence of a
muscle with a strength recording of 0, respectively, among those muscles that were non-zero at
baseline. All 11 muscles assessed by HHD as well as grip strength will be considered. Both
HHD0 and HHD0[2] are composite endpoints with death or death-equivalent, censored at the
Week 24 Visit if completed or at the earlier of the end of the Week 24 Visit window or date last
known alive if a Week 24 visit is not completed. Larger HHD0 and HHD0[2] times indicate
longer preservation of strength.

5.4   Biofluid Biomarkers
Blood and urine biomarkers will be assayed. Biomarkers will include serum creatinine and serum
and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) neurofilament light chain (NfL). Serum creatinine will be assayed
by the kinetic Jaffe method (test 001370, Labcorp, Burlington, NC). NfL will be assayed by
single-molecule array (Simoa; Quanterix, Billerica, MA). Levels of serum and CSF NfL that are
reported to be below the limit of quantitation will be imputed at the limit of quantitation. Levels
of serum and CSF NfL will be log-transformed in all analyses. Other biomarkers may be
analyzed.

5.5   Patient-reported Outcomes
Patient-reported outcomes may be included as regimen-specific assessments. The description and
scoring of each instrument will be specified in the R-SAP.

5.6   Survival
The primary survival endpoint will be the composite of death or death equivalent. A secondary
survival endpoint of death alone independent of any death equivalent (including a death
equivalent that occurs prior to baseline) is also defined. Death equivalent will be defined as use
of permanent assisted ventilation (PAV), where PAV is defined as more than 22 hours per day of
noninvasive or invasive mechanical ventilation for more than seven consecutive days. The date
of PAV initiation is the first day of the consecutive days. The date of PAV initiation, where
applicable, will be imputed as the fifteenth day of a month if not specified more precisely. Any
participant on PAV at baseline will be censored at baseline for the composite survival endpoint.
Time at risk for both the composite survival endpoint of death or death equivalent and the
survival endpoint of death alone will be measured from each participant's Baseline Visit and will
be censored at the Week 24 Visit if completed or at the earlier of the end of the Week 24 Visit
window or date last known alive if a Week 24 visit is not completed.
Additional secondary analyses of survival may consider different durations of follow-up.

5.7   King's ALS Clinical Staging System
The King's ALS Clinical Staging System (Roche et al. 2012) is a 4-level ordinal scale with the
first three levels indicating the number (1, 2, or 3) of distinct central nervous system regions


                                                                                        Page 15 of 62
