Cudkowicz (PI) HEALEY ALS Platform Trial: Master Statistical Analysis Plan     Version 3.0, 06 Feb 2023


1. Governing Documents
This Master Statistical Analysis Plan (M-SAP) defines the default outcome measures, analysis
samples, and planned analyses for the placebo-controlled portion of regimens tested in the
HEALEY ALS Platform Trial for Regimen-specific Appendices (RSAs) initiated after
implementation of version 5.0 of the HEALEY ALS Platform Trial Master Protocol in February
2023. RSAs initiated on earlier versions of the HEALEY ALS Platform Trial Master Protocol
will refer to version 2.0 of the M-SAP dated 06 Mar 2020. Each RSA will have a regimen-
specific SAP (R-SAP) that specifies any deviations or further details that supersede the
specifications given here. The M-SAP and each R-SAP supplement the Master Protocol, the
"ALS Master Protocol Recommended Statistical Analysis, Design and Simulation Report"
(MPRDR, Appendix 1 to this M-SAP), and the applicable RSA. Please refer to the Master
Protocol and applicable RSA for details on the rationale for the study design, eligibility criteria,
conduct of the trial, clinical assessments and schedule of assessments, definitions and reporting
of adverse events, data management conventions, and regulatory oversight and compliance
procedures. The MPRDR and any regimen-specific deviations described in the applicable RSA
and R-SAP are authoritative in defining the primary and interim analyses. In case of
discrepancies between either SAP and the Master Protocol and applicable RSA concerning other
matters of analysis, the M-SAP and applicable R-SAP are authoritative. In case of discrepancies
between the M-SAP and R-SAP, the R-SAP is authoritative. On all other matters, the Master
Protocol and applicable RSA are authoritative.

2. Study Design

2.1       Overview
The HEALEY ALS Platform Trial is a perpetual multi-center, multi-regimen clinical trial
evaluating the safety and efficacy of investigational products for the treatment of ALS.
Investigational products will be evaluated according to details specified in distinct RSAs. Each
RSA will describe the nature of the intervention and its mechanism of action, including the mode
and frequency of administration, number of doses, the specific target population (to be selected
within the pre-defined subsets of the Master Protocol), additional enrollment criteria (if any),
sample size, and other specific intervention-related information and assessments (safety or other
assessments that may be in addition to those outlined in the Master Protocol).

2.2       Study Objectives
Primary Efficacy Objective:
      x    To evaluate the efficacy of multiple investigational products as compared to placebo on
           ALS disease progression.
Secondary Efficacy Objectives:
      x    To evaluate the effect of multiple investigational products on selected secondary
           measures of disease progression.
Safety Objectives:
      x    To evaluate the safety of multiple investigational products for people with ALS.


                                                                                           Page 8 of 62
