Cudkowicz (PI) HEALEY ALS Platform Trial: Master Statistical Analysis Plan   Version 3.0, 06 Feb 2023


Additionally, to demonstrate that our model properly accounts for mortality and to show
the sensitivity of the model to treatment-dependent differences in mortality, two simulated
trials have been explored (Tables 6.2.2 and 6.2.3 and Figures 6.2.1-6.2.2). Within each
simulated trial, we fix the ALSFRS-R data for each participant as well as the mortality data
of participants in the placebo arm. We then let the mortality data on the active treatment
arm vary to explore how the key supportive joint rank analysis (CAFS) and the proposed
Bayesian shared-parameter primary analysis respond to an increasing number of deaths
on the active treatment arm. The point at which inference about benefit from treatment
switches from significant to non-significant, the tipping point, reveals how sensitive a given
analysis is to an excess of deaths in the active arm. An analysis with a smaller tipping point
is more sensitive and would be less likely to support a claim of benefit from the active
treatment when the active treatment slows functional progression does not also reduce
mortality rates.
The base simulations assume a substantial slowing in rate of functional decline of 30%.
Within these example trials, as more participants on the active treatment arm experience
mortality, the estimated disease rate ratio (DRR), the common treatment effect estimate
between mortality and function, increases towards 1 (no effect of treatment) and the
posterior probability that the treatment slows the rate of progression (DRR < 1) decreases.
This is similar to the change seen in the CAFS joint rank analysis: as mortality in the active
treatment arm increases, its p-value becomes less significative (see details below). The two
example trials differ in the overall mortality rate (Example 1 has a higher rate than
Example 2). Comparison of the two example trials shows that the sensitivity of the results
to the mortality hazard ratio depends on the overall mortality rate (the mortality hazard
ratio is smaller at the tipping point for Example 1 than for Example 2). These examples
demonstrate that the proposed Bayesian shared-parameter model is more sensitive to
discrepancies in the effect of treatment on mortality vs. the effect of treatment on function
relative to the CAFS joint rank analysis.

For each example, we tabulate the following parameters across a range of mortality rates in
the active treatment arm (Tables 6.2.2 and 6.2.3): the number of deaths on active treatment
and shared placebo, the posterior DRR parameter estimates from the shared-parameter
analysis vs. the sensitivity analysis that allows different DRR treatment effects between
function and mortality, CAFS one-sided p-value, and posterior probability that the DRR is
less than 1 from the shared parameter model. For Example 1, we present several graphs
from specific representative trial simulations (the highlighted rows from Table 6.2.2; Plots
6.2.1-6.2.2). The top left plot shows estimates of change from baseline in ALSFRS-R through
24-weeks. The results include fitted values for the active treatment and the shared placebo
from the Bayesian shared-parameter model (solid lines), fitted values for the active
treatment and the shared placebo from the sensitivity analysis with different treatment
effects on mortality and function (dotted lines), and raw mean values of the change from
baseline at each visit (circles). The top right plot is a residual plot of fitted ALSFRS-R value
(x-axis) at each visit vs. the residual ALSFRS-R value (y-axis) from the Bayesian shared-
parameter model. The color of the circle represents active treatment vs. shared placebo.
The size of the circle represents visit time (24-week visits are larger circles than 4-week
visits). The bottom left plot shows Kaplan-Meier survival curves for mortality for the active

                                                                                        Page 51 of 62
