Cudkowicz (PI) HEALEY ALS Platform Trial: Master Statistical Analysis Plan   Version 3.0, 06 Feb 2023


The planned mixed model analyses, where applied, yield estimates that are unbiased conditional
on the observed values under a missing at random assumption. Secondary analyses of efficacy
endpoints that accommodate missing values are described below (see Sections 6.5.5 and 6.5.6).

4. Study Endpoints

4.1     Efficacy Endpoints
The primary efficacy endpoint is change from baseline through Week 24 in disease severity as
measured by the ALS Functional Rating Scale-Revised (ALSFRS-R) total score and survival.
Secondary efficacy endpoints include change from baseline through Week 24 in muscle strength
as measured isometrically using hand-held dynamometry (HHD) and grip strength, respiratory
function as assessed by slow vital capacity (SVC), and survival.

4.2     Exploratory Efficacy Endpoints
The following categories of exploratory endpoints will be evaluated:
x     Biofluid biomarkers
x     Patient-reported outcomes

4.3     Safety Endpoints
The following safety endpoints will be evaluated:
x     Treatment-emergent adverse and serious adverse events.
x     Changes in laboratory values and treatment-emergent and clinically significant laboratory
      abnormalities.
x     Changes in ECG parameters and treatment-emergent and clinically significant ECG
      abnormalities.
x     Treatment-emergent suicidal ideation and suicidal behavior.
Reported proportions will use as their denominator all participants in the applicable Safety
sample (see Section 6.1 below).

5. Measurement Definitions

5.1     ALSFRS-R
The ALSFRS-R (Cedarbaum et al. 1999) is a 12-item instrument completed by clinician
interview for assessing participants’ function in four domains: bulbar, fine motor, gross motor,
and respiratory. Each item is scored from 0 to 4 with higher scores indicating greater function.
The ALSFRS-R total score is the sum of all items (range 0 to 48). Domain scores are the sum of
their respective items (range 0 to 12): bulbar function = Q1-Q3, fine motor function = Q4-Q6,
gross motor function = Q7-Q9, and respiratory function = QR1-QR3 (Q10-Q12).
The average rate of disease progression prior to the Baseline Visit as measured by ALSFRS-R
(pre-baseline slope of ALSFRS-R or delta-FRS) will be calculated as 48 minus the ALSFRS-R


                                                                                        Page 13 of 62
