Cudkowicz (PI) HEALEY ALS Platform Trial: Master Statistical Analysis Plan   Version 3.0, 06 Feb 2023


   x   Time of Randomization: ݀(݅) denotes the time of randomization, ݀, for participant i.
       The time of randomization is expressed as an ordinal discrete outcome that where
       ݀ = 0 is the current time period for concurrent controls (defined as in Section 2.1
       with those participants randomized within 6 months (180 days) from the start or
       finish of randomization within the analysis regimen) and ݀ = 1, … , ‫ ܦ‬are the
       number of additional 6-month intervals preceding the start of the current time
       period.
   x   Baseline Covariates: ܺ௜ is a vector of dimension C of baseline covariates for
       participant i that have been standardized.


Each parameter in the above model and the prior distribution assumed for each parameter
is described below in Sections 2.2.1 – 2.2.7. The majority of the prior distributions are
chosen to be non-informative (large amount of variability and uncertainty) to allow the
posterior distributions to reflect what is observed in the data.

2.2.1 Treatment Effect ALSFRS-R and Mortality

The disease rate ratio (DRR) under treatment T is the parameter exp(ߠ் ). For a placebo
patient, the DRR is set equal to 1 (ߠ଴ = 0). Thus, the DRR parameter for active treatment
represents the relative change to the rate of decline of ALSFRS-R and the rate of mortality
of treated participant relative to a placebo participant. The estimated DRR can also be
interpreted as the average rate of decline in function and mortality, with the weights across
function and mortality depending on the proportion of patients with observed mortality.
Appropriately, more weight is given to mortality relative to function as the proportion of
observed mortality increases. If the DRR is less than 1 then the rate of disease progression
on function and mortality for actively treated participants is slower than that for placebo.
The DRR value represents the proportional slowing in time (or increase) of the disease. A
DRR = 0.75 corresponds to a 25% slowing in the rate of functional progression and time to
mortality and a value of 0.25 represents a 75% slowing in the rate of functional
progression and time to mortality.

The prior distribution for the DRR for the regimen-specific active treatment, T=1, is
uniform between 0 and 2; placing equal weight on a DRR<1 and DRR>1:

                                       exp(ߠଵ ) ~ܷ݂݊݅(0,2).


2.2.2 Random Intercept and Slope Effects for ALSFRS-R


Participant-specific random intercept effects, ߛ௜ , ݅ = 1, … , ܰ, represent the increase or
decrease in the participant-specific expected ALSFRS-R at the time of randomization
compared to the overall mean for the treatment arm and regimen. Participant-specific



                                                                                        Page 37 of 62
