Cudkowicz (PI) HEALEY ALS Platform Trial: Master Statistical Analysis Plan   Version 3.0, 06 Feb 2023


The sample size enrolled in each regimen will be determined based on the specifics of the
intervention, anticipated effect size, and number of treatment arms evaluated within that
regimen. There are frequent interim analyses in order to potentially stop a regimen early
for success or for futility. The default design for a regimen will include stopping early only
for futility. Interim analyses will be conducted at the same time for all regimens within the
master protocol, every 12 weeks of trial time. A regimen is eligible for these interim
analyses once a minimum specified amount of data has been observed for that regimen.


2.0 Primary Efficacy Analysis

The following describes the Bayesian shared parameter primary analysis method of
function and survival for each regimen, the primary analysis population, prior distributions
for all model parameters, and specific posterior summaries of interest that will be used in
the design. We denote the regimen being analyzed as the “analysis regimen” throughout.

2.1 Primary Analysis Population and Shared Control

The primary analysis population for each analysis regimen is guided by the intent to treat
(ITT) principle and includes all participants randomized to the active treatment arm within
the analysis regimen, all participants concurrently randomized to the control arm within
the analysis regimen, and control participants from other regimens from a shared control,
excluding any participant determined to not meet ALS diagnostic criteria.
The primary analysis dataset uses longitudinal data on disease progression (ALSFRS-R
measurements at 0, 4, 8, 12, 16, 20 and 24 weeks, at early termination visits, and
assessments during double-blind follow-up that substitute for missed scheduled visits) for
those who have not been censored due to reaching the survival endpoint (a composite of
death or death-equivalent) as well as occurrence of the survival endpoint during planned
double-blind follow-up on participants within the primary analysis population. Follow-up
for primary analysis of survival among participants who do not die or reach a death
equivalent prior to the Week 24 Visit will be censored at the Week 24 Visit date, if
completed, or at the earlier of the end of the Week 24 Visit window or date last known alive
if a Week 24 visit is not completed. Off-schedule results, e.g., those collected as part of an
Early Termination Visit, will be used in place of the closest missing scheduled visit (while
preserving visit sequence) for analyses that depend on visit-specific data. Off-schedule
results that do not substitute for a missed schedule visit will not be used.

The shared control group will include participants randomized to the control arm across
other actively enrolling regimens (concurrent shared controls) and previously completed
regimens (non-concurrent shared controls) within the master protocol as specified in the
RSA. Concurrent shared controls are defined as participants on a control arm who were
randomized within a 6-month window of the start and stop of randomization of the
analysis regimen. For the purposes of analysis, 6 months is defined as 180 days. For
example, if the analysis regimen enrolls from Month 12 – Month 24 in the platform, the

                                                                                        Page 34 of 62
