Cudkowicz (PI) HEALEY ALS Platform Trial: Master Statistical Analysis Plan   Version 3.0, 06 Feb 2023


group is compared to only the regimen-specific controls and compared to only the controls
with the same mode of administration. We provide examples from simulated trials
(Figures 6.3.1-6.3.3) to demonstrate how discrepancies between the primary analysis and
proposed sensitivity analyses will address the concern of a potential type I error and bias
due to sharing of controls that are heterogenous.

For each simulated example trial, the left plots show results from the primary shared-
parameter model for the change from baseline in ALSFRS-R through 24 weeks using all
shared controls (top) and for the sensitivity analysis using only regimen-specific controls
(bottom). The results include fitted values for the active treatment and for each regimen-
specific control (blue line for active treatment; red line for matching control from analysis
regimen; pink for additional shared controls when included in the analysis) and raw mean
values in the change from baseline at each visit (circles). The middle plots show mortality
KM plots as well as exponential fitted curves for the primary analysis using all shared
controls (top) vs. the sensitivity analysis with only regimen-specific controls (bottom). The
right plots show the DRR parameter estimates, i.e., the posterior probability of slowing
progression (DRR<1), from the primary analysis method using all shared controls (top) vs.
the sensitivity analysis using only regimen-specific controls (bottom). Additionally, we
note the one-sided p-value from the key supportive CAFS analysis using all shared controls
(top right) compared to only regimen-specific controls (bottom right).
Figure 6.3.1 shows results from a null simulated trial (no treatment effect) where there are
differences across regimens in the shared control. In particular, the matched regimen-
specific control from the analysis regimen has a slower rate of progression on ALSFRS-R
(red circles) than the controls from the other regimens in the shared control (pink circles).
The raw mean change from baseline at 24 weeks in the matched regimen-specific controls
is approximately -4.5 and the mean change from baseline at 24 weeks in the other shared
controls is approximately -6.5 and -7.2. These differences across regimens within the
shared control lead to a fitted ALSFRS-R slope for the matched regimen-specific control to
be pulled down and estimated to be larger (faster progression) than what is observed in
that regimen only (red line falls below red circles). This causes a positive treatment effect
bias in the DRR (estimated to be 0.73) under the primary analysis method. The posterior
probability that the DRR is less than 1 is 0.990 and the corresponding one-sided p-value
from the CAFS is 0.0063. Both analysis methods using shared controls would lead to a type
I error. In comparison, the sensitivity analysis using only matched regimen-specific
controls leads to a fitted value for the regimen-only controls ALSFRS-R slope that estimates
slower decline than what was estimated using all shared controls. This results in a smaller
treatment effect estimate of 0.91 under the primary shared-parameter analysis. The
posterior probability that the DRR is less than 1 is 0.683 and the corresponding one-sided
p-value from the CAFS is 0.5525. The clear discrepancies between the primary analysis
and the proposed sensitivity analysis using only regimen-specific controls in the Bayesian
shared parameter analysis as well as the CAFS analysis demonstrates that the positive
result in the primary analysis may be a type I error due to the sharing of heterogenous
controls.




                                                                                        Page 57 of 62
