CALGB 70807

selenium levels they found that the cohort with the highest selenium levels and AA
genotype were protected against prostate cancer in general and clinically aggressive
prostate cancer specifically. Another example of genotype environment interaction is
vitamin D and Vitamin D Receptor polymorphisms. A study from the Physicians
Health Study demonstrated that while the Vitamin D Receptor polymorphism BsmI
or FokI were not associated with prostate carcinoma, men with FokI ff genotype and
low vitamin D levels had the highest risk of developing PCa in general and aggressive
disease specifically (98). Given that vitamin D oral formulations have been explored
as a treatment option for PCa (99), identification of an interaction between genotype
and environment could have potential clinical application.
The MEAL study offers the ideal population to study the interaction between genetic
risk and diet. First and foremost, if genetic risk is associated with aggressive disease,
then patients with the high risk genetic background should be more likely to
progress. What is unique about the MEAL study is to determine if dietary
modification alters that genetic risk. If it does then genetically high risk patients
could modify their diet at the time of diagnosis or possibly sooner. Alternatively, if
diet does not modify risk of progression then more aggressive management could be
instituted.
10.3.2 Objectives
10.3.2.1 To compare MnSOD, XRCC1, and GST gene polymorphisms to PSADT in AS
patients receiving dietary intervention versus no intervention.
10.3.2.2 To compare MnSOD, XRCC1, and GST gene polymorphisms to time to
pathological progression in AS patients receiving dietary intervention versus
no intervention.
10.3.3 Methods
Whole blood samples are being collected at baseline for DNA isolation and evaluation
of genetic polymorphisms that affect antioxidant metabolism such as MnSOD. In
addition, there is evidence of other interactions between antioxidant systems and
dietary practice. Some of these could have an impact on the prostate such as
catechol-o-methyl transferase and glutathione peroxidase.
10.4 Analysis of diagnostic prostate biopsy sections (Substudy 151105)
10.4.1 Background
A great deal of information is contained in the prostate tissue in the diagnostic
biopsy: the Gleason score, which indicates the aggressiveness of the cancer, and the
size and location of the cancer. Higher Gleason score and larger tumor are associated
with disease progression. The biopsy tissue can be used to describe the rates at which
prostate cells are proliferating and at which prostate cells are undergoing apoptosis.
Together, these factors provide an indicator of overall tumor growth index, which is
associated with disease progression. The biopsy also can be used to describe the
degree to which androgen-signaling proteins, including the androgen receptor, and
androgen metabolism enzymes, including 5-alpha reductase 1, 2, and 3, are
expressed. Androgen-signaling proteins have been linked to prostate cancer risk and
to treatment outcome, with androgen signaling generally associated with the presence
or development of more aggressive disease (108-110). Recent advances make possible
the detection of small noncoding segments of RNA, known as microRNA, which can be
extracted from serum and from tissue fragments. MicroRNAs 141 and 375, which
have received a great deal of attention as likely predictors of prostate cancer
treatment outcome, will be examined in this study (111, 112). These two microRNAs
have been associated with more aggressive disease and with tumor progression.
Taking these key indicators into account in analyses may enable better description of
the likelihood that the prostate will respond to dietary change. Although randomized
assignment should greatly lessen the likelihood of confounding of outcome by such
Version Date 09/26/18

Update #10
35

