CALGB 70807

•

•

•

•

Blood and tissue samples will be stored at an Alliance laboratory. The Alliance Statistics and
Data Center will perform all analyses of data and store all study results. Your blood and
tissue samples will not be stored with your name on them. Instead, they will be labeled with a
special Alliance identification number. The only location where your name and special
identification number will be stored together is at the Alliance Statistics and Data Center. The
greatest effort will be made to see that all personal information that can identify you is kept
under conditions that protect your privacy.
Information about your participation in this study and results of any tests performed on your
samples will be kept only at the Alliance Statistics and Data Center. This information will not
be made available to your doctors or to individual researchers at the Alliance. Test results
from this study will not be put in your medical records. All study information, including test
results, is stored under conditions that limit access in order to protect the privacy of the
people participating in the study.
The Alliance has received a Certificate of Confidentiality from the federal government,
which will help us to protect your privacy. More information about the Certificate can be
found in the paragraph “Will my medical information be kept private?”
A federal law (Genetic Information Non-Discrimination Act, GINA) will help lower the risk
from health insurance or employment discrimination on the basis of genetic information. The
federal law does not include other types of misuse by life insurance, long-term care or
disability insurance. If you want to learn more about the GINA Law, which went into effect
in 2009, you can find information about it on the internet or ask the study staff. In addition to
the federal law, some states have laws that also help protect against genetic discrimination.

While we believe that the risks to you and your family are very low, we cannot tell you exactly what
all of the risks are from taking part in genetic research studies. Your privacy and confidentiality will
be protected to the fullest extent possible.
You have the right to participate in this study without participating in the proposed research studies
on your blood samples. Please read the sentence below and think about your choice. After reading
the sentence, please mark your choice and provide the current date. No matter what you decide to
do, it will not affect your care.

1) I agree that my specimens may be used for the research described above.
_____ Yes

_____ No

Initials _____

Version Date 09/26/18

Update #10
56

