    x Change in European Heart Rhythm Association (EHRA) class at 6 and 12 months
The data for this outcome is categorical in nature and in 5 orderly categories; 1=None, 2a=Mild, 2b=Moderate,
3=Severe, 4=Disabling. This data is collected as baseline, 6 months and 12 months. This data will be summarised
as number and percentage by treatment arm and time-point with respect to the EHRA class.

The analysis for this outcome will be conducted using an ordinal logistic regression model, where the outcome
will be the EHRA class at follow up (with EHRA class 1 being the reference category) and independent variables in
the model being the baseline EHRA class, treatment arm, gender, age at randomisation and baseline LVEF. An
adjusted odds ratio and 95% confidence interval will be estimated from the ordinal logistic regression.

Higher EHRA class is considered to be a worse outcome and since the Bisoprolol arm will be used as a reference
category in the model, higher values will indicate worse outcome for Digoxin arm.
Note: separate analysis will be done for 6 month and 12 month time-point.

We will also code this outcome as a binary “yes/no” variable where “yes” will be determined if patients had a 2
class improvement in the EHRA class from baseline. The full details for the computation of this are described in
the data manipulations section 9.4.

The analysis for this outcome will be conducted using a logistic regression model, where the outcome will be the
computed binary variable “yes/no” (with yes being the reference category) and independent variables in the
model being treatment arm, gender, age at randomisation and baseline LVEF. An adjusted odds ratio and 95%
confidence interval will be estimated from the logistic regression model.

Since we are modelling whether patients had an improvement from baseline and that the Bisoprolol arm will be
used as a reference category in the model, higher values will indicate better outcome for Digoxin arm.
Note: again separate analysis will be done for 6 month and 12 month time-point.


Biomarkers
    x Change in NTpro-B-type natriuretic peptide (NTpro-BNP) levels
The data for NTpro-BNP is continuous in nature and likely to be skewed and not normally distributed. Hence this
data will need to be log-transformed first before analysis (see section 9.4 for more details). This data is collected
at baseline, 6 month and 12 month. The raw untransformed data will be presented as mean standard deviation,
median and interquartile range along with minimum and maximum values by treatment arm and time-point.

This outcome (log-transformed score) will be analysed using the same analysis methods as described in section
9.5 for primary outcome. Higher values of NTproBNP are considered worse and the Bisoprolol arm will again be
used as a reference category for the model based analysis. Since we will be modelling the log-transformed scores
and then exponentiate the effect size, the outcome will be in terms of geometric mean ratio and so values <1 will
indicate better outcome for Digoxin arm.
Note: separate analysis will be done for 6 month and 12 month time-point.


Feasibility outcomes
   x Recruitment target of 3 patients per week across all participating centres
   x Compliance and reasons for non-compliance
   x Number of withdrawals and losses to follow-up (with reasons)
   x Drug discontinuation rate and adverse reactions requiring drug discontinuation
   x Number of patients needing therapy-induced requirement for additional treatment
   x Population-specific standard deviations (SD) and proportions:
             o SD of SF36 physical functioning score at 6 and 12 months
             o SD of SF36 overall score at 6 and 12 months


                                                       Page 21 of 45
