Source PDF: jama_wijesurendra_2025_oi_250068_1760999665.28362.pdf
Source PDF page: 2
Extraction method: native PDF text

A
trial fibrillation (AF) is associated with increased risk
of stroke, heart failure, and premature death.1 Cardio-
embolic strokes presumed to be related to AF account
for up to one-third of ischemic strokes,2 and oral anticoagu-
lation in individuals at high risk with AF reduces stroke risk
by approximately two-thirds and all-cause mortality by
one-quarter.3 AF can be asymptomatic and/or occur intermit-
tentlyandthereforemaynotbeclinicallyevident,butthisdoes
not affect either stroke risk or the efficacy of, or indication for,
anticoagulation in AF.4-7
Screening has been proposed as a way to increase early AF
detection and prevent cardioembolic strokes with anti-
coagulation.8,9 US recommendations state that there is insuf-
ficient evidence to support population-based electrocardio-
gram (ECG) screening,10 while European guidelines give a
class IIA recommendation for screening using a prolonged,
noninvasive, ECG-based approach in individuals at high risk.7
Importantly, any impact of AF screening on clinical out-
comes depends on achieving a greater sustained increase in
AF detection and anticoagulation use than that resulting from
usual care alone, highlighting the importance of long-term
studies to generate the evidence needed to justify establish-
ing formal screening programs.11
The Active Monitoring for Atrial Fibrillation (AMALFI) trial
tested whether remote screening for asymptomatic AF using
a single, noninvasive, long-term (14-day) continuous moni-
toring ECG patch in older individuals at moderate to high risk
of stroke led to a greater rate of AF diagnosis at 2.5 years after
randomization compared with usual care. Effects on antico-
agulation use and stroke were exploratory outcomes.
Methods
Study Design
AMALFI is an investigator-initiated, parallel-group, un-
blinded, randomized clinical trial (RCT), which recruited in-
dividuals from 27 primary care practices in the UK. AMALFI
was an entirely remote trial, with no physical study sites or
in-person visits. The trial design and protocol (Supplement 1)
have been published.12 The protocol and subsequent
modifications were approved by the University of Oxford
(trial sponsor), the London–Bromley Research Ethics Commit-
tee (19/LO/0220), and the Health Research Authority
(IRAS234837). AMALFI is registered in ISRCTN (15544176). The
CONSORT reporting guidelines were followed.
Participants
Individuals 65 years or older with a CHA2DS2VASc score of 3
or higher (men) or 4 or higher (women) were eligible. The key
exclusion criterion was a previous diagnosis of AF or atrial flut-
ter. Participants with qualifying risk factors were identified via
automated electronic health record searches performed in par-
ticipating primary care practices, described previously.12 All
participants provided written informed consent. Data on race
and ethnicity were extracted from primary care records prior
toandupto2.5yearspostrandomizationbecauseraceandeth-
nicity influence AF epidemiology.13 Where discrepancies oc-
curred, the category listed most frequently was assigned.
Wherenoinformativeprimarycarerecordswereavailable,race
and ethnicity were sourced from secondary care records and
classified in an identical manner. Full details on the coding of
race and ethnicity and other patient characteristics have been
published previously.12
Randomization
Participants were randomized 1:1 between the intervention
(patch) and control (usual care) groups. A minimization
algorithm was used to ensure adequate balance between
groups with regard to important features associated with the
presence of AF and stroke, namely age, sex, and residual
CHA2DS2VASc (congestive heart failure, hypertension, age,
diabetes, prior stroke/transient ischemic attack, vascular dis-
ease, sex category) score. There was no masking, and partici-
pants, their general practitioners (GPs), and the trial team were
aware of study group randomization. However, access to tabu-
larresultsofstudyoutcomesbyrandomizedallocationwasnot
available to the research team, chief investigators, trial stat-
isticians, or GPs prior to finalizing the statistical analysis plan
(Supplement 2) and conducting the main trial analyses.
Procedures
AMALFI tested a remote screening strategy using a noninva-
sive, single-lead ECG patch for long-term (14-day) continu-
ous ambulatory cardiac monitoring (Zio XT, iRhythm), here-
after referred to as patch or ECG monitor.
Participants randomized to the intervention group were
sent the patch by mail and asked to self-apply it. Instructions
were included with the patch and a short video was available
on the study website, as was further assistance via telephone
or email. Those randomized to the control group received a let-
ter confirming their allocation and were not required to un-
dertake any further action. The trial design and all participant-
facing materials were reviewed by a patient panel prior to
recruitment to ensure that the information was comprehen-
sive and intelligible.
Automated alert systems were in place for patch find-
ings of AF and other clinically actionable arrhythmias,
which were communicated to GPs immediately by secure
email. Results letters were also sent to GPs detailing the
presence or absence of AF, along with duration, heart rate,
Key Points
Question What is the long-term effect on atrial fibrillation (AF)
diagnosis of screening older individuals at moderate to high risk of
stroke using a single, 14-day, patch-based continuous ambulatory
electrocardiogram monitor?
Findings In this remote randomized clinical trial including 5040
individuals in primary care, AF was diagnosed by 2.5 years after
randomization in 172 individuals (6.8%) in the intervention group
vs 136 (5.4%) in the control group, a statistically significant
difference.
Meaning A mail-based AF screening program led to a modest
long-term increase in AF diagnosis.
Research Original Investigation
Remote Screening for Asymptomatic Atrial Fibrillation
1350
JAMA
October 21, 2025
Volume 334, Number 15
(Reprinted)
jama.com
© 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.
Downloaded from jamanetwork.com by University of Arizona Health Sciences Library user on 07/23/2026
