3.8 Statistical analysis
In TRAUMOX1, the primary combined endpoint occurred in 20% in the restrictive group and 33% in the
liberal group. In larger studies, mortality from trauma has been estimated to be around 6-12%24, and the
incidence for ventilator associated pneumonia post trauma to be almost 30%13. With 710 trial participants in
each arm, we will be able to detect a 33% risk reduction with a restrictive supplemental oxygen strategy
(with 80% power at the 5% significance level) if the incidence of our primary outcome is 15% in the liberal
group. Our primary analysis will be a modified intention-to-treat analysis, but a per-protocol analysis will
also be carried out. A detailed statistical analysis plan, including the pre-specified subgroup analyses, will be
made. In the primary analysis, we will exclude trial participants where no injuries are found defined as ISS =
0.

If less than 5% of data required for any specific analysis on primary or secondary outcomes are missing, a
complete case analysis will be performed. If more than 5% are missing, and it is concluded that data are not
‘missing completely at random’ (MCAR criterion),25 inverse probability weighting will be used to correct
this bias. A sensitivity analysis on the assumptions used for missing data will be done to verify robustness.

Inclusion of trial participants will end when the goal of 1420 evaluable trial participants has been reached
including the 30-day follow up period. This means that the maximum number of trial participants will be
1600 as inclusion will continue during evaluation of the 30-day follow-up. EQ-5D-5L score and GOSE score
at 6 months and 12 months will be obtained. Mortality at 30 days and 12 months will also be obtained. The
primary composite outcome will be compared between the two groups using logistic regression reported as
Odds Ratio (OR) with 95% CI. The primary analysis will be adjusted for age, sex, centre, intubated at
randomisation (yes/no), and known pneumonia on admission (under treatment). Secondary outcomes will
also be compared between the two groups using Fisher’s exact test/Chi2 test for categorical data and
competing risk survival analyses for continuous data. We will use a 5% significance level. Any changes or
additional analyses will be reported.

In the per-protocol analysis, all trial participants with ≥1 major protocol violation will be removed. Please
see section 3.8.1 for definitions of major protocol violations.

Pre-specified subgroup analyses will be made on trial participants initially intubated (within one hour of the
accident) (yes/no), trial participants with ICU admission (yes/no), trial participants with moderate and severe
traumatic brain injuries (yes/no), trial participants with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (yes/no),
episodes with hypoxaemia as well as an analysis on trial participants enrolled prehospital versus in-hospital.
An analysis adjusted for Injury Severity Score will also be conducted.

The statistical analysis will be performed by a biostatistician.

3.8.1 Major protocol violations
A major protocol violation will be defined as:

    x   Restrictive O2 group: during the intervention period




                                                                                                                62
        - For non-intubated trial participants: Supplemental oxygen ≥3 L O2/min and having an SpO2 ≥98%
        recorded in two consecutive hourly values in the data collection sheet: “Randomisation, data
        collection sheet and REDCap inclusion”

        - For intubated trial participants: FiO2 >0.4 and having an SpO2 ≥98% recorded in two consecutive
        hourly values in the data collection sheet: “Randomisation, data collection sheet and REDCap
        inclusion”

    x   Liberal O2 group: during the intervention period

        - For non-intubated trial participants: Supplemental oxygen <3 L O2/min in two consecutive hourly
        values in the data collection sheet: “Randomisation, data collection sheet and REDCap inclusion”

        - For intubated trial participants: FiO2 <0.4 in two consecutive hourly values in the data collection
        sheet: “Randomisation, data collection sheet and REDCap inclusion”



4. Drug management and accounting
4.1 Drug management
The investigated drug will be handled by the usual providers: Air Liquide A/S, Strandmøllen A/S and Linde
Gas A/S.

4.2 Drug accounting
As the consumption of the trial medicine, oxygen, is continuous in all prehospital and intrahospital units, the
providers (Strandmøllen A/S, Linde Gas A/S and Air Liquide A/S) will register batch numbers and
expiration dates as usual. Detailed accounting and registration of the drugs will not be possible, as oxygen
runs through central pipelines and thus cannot be tracked on an individual trial participant level. However,
we foresee no possible complications or risks beyond the existing, which will be entirely unrelated to this
study. Any potential problems with the delivery will not affect the enrolled trial participants any further than
it would were they not enrolled in the study. No other methods to study oxygen at our institution are
possible. Therefore, appendix 12 (“Produktresuméer for oxygen ved Air Liquide, Strandmøllen og Linde
Gas, kryogen og komprimeret”) will be the most detailed available source of drug accounting and thus serve
as the primary source.



5. Safety management
5.1 Definitions
The following definitions will be used26:

    x   Adverse Event (AE): Any untoward medical occurrence in a subject to whom a medicinal product is
        adminsitered and which does not necessarily have a causal relationship with this treatment.




                                                                                                                63
    x   Serious Adverse Event (SAE): Any untoward medical occurrence that at any dose requires inpatient
        hospitalisation or prolongation of existing hospitalisation, results in persistent or significant
        disability or incapacity, results in a congenital anomaly or birth defect, is life-threatening, or results
        in death.

    x   Suspected Unexpected Serious Adverse Reaction (SUSAR): A suspected, serious adverse reaction,
        the nature, severity or outcome of which is not consistent with the reference safety information.

5.2 Tracking of events
The local investigators at each centre is responsible for recording the different types of AEs and SAEs in the
trial participant’s Case Report Form in REDCap. The specific investigator will assess the correlation
between an event and trial medicine using the following AE/SAE event policy:
     x 1: Unrelated – No temporal context; other etiologies are more likely to be the cause
     x 2: Possible related – Less clear connection; other etiologies are also possible
     x 3: Probably related – Clear temporal correlation with medication discontinuation, and not reasonably
         explained by the known clinical condition of the subject
     x 4: Related – Clear temporal relationship with rehabilitation test or clinical assessment

To monitor AEs and SAEs, a TRAUMOX2 investigator will assess the trial participant’s medical record:
    x Once within the first 24 hours
    x Every third day until discharge (maximum of 30 days)

5.3 Adverse Events and Serious Adverse Events
This group of trial participants are expected to have a lot of complications. It is the established practice in
trials on critically ill patients that adverse events are part of the natural trajectory of the primary disease
process or expected complications of the critical illness.27

Therefore, we have chosen to record only the following AEs:
   x Atelectasis (only atelectases assessed by a radiologist are recorded)
   x Irritability of airway mucosa (recorded only if registered by the health care staff in the medical
       record)

Only the first AE of either atelectasis or irritability of airway mucosa will be recorded during admission (not
a subsequent).

We will register all SAEs. The registration will be done in REDCap and once a SAE registration is complete,
the sponsor and coordinating investigator will receive an e-mail notification within 24 hours via the REDCap
notification e-mail system. Thus, the law on immediate notifying (within 24 hours after it has come to an
investigator’s knowledge) the sponsor about SAEs is being followed.

5.4 Suspected Unexpected Serious Adverse Reactions
All potential SUSARs will be reported to the sponsor within 24 hours of discovery. If the sponsor believes
that a trial participant has a SUSAR which results in death or is in a life-threatening condition, it will be
reported as soon as possible to the Danish Medicines Agency and The Committee on Health Research Ethics
and no later than 7 days after it has come to sponsor’s knowledge. No later than 8 days after the report (15


                                                                                                                  64
days in total), sponsor must inform the mentioned authorities about all relevant information on the follow-up
of the SUSAR. All other trial participants that have a SUSAR that do not result in death or in life-threatening
conditions must be reported no later than 15 days after sponsor has been made aware of these.

5.5 Reporting
Once a year, a report with all SUSARs will be sent to The Danish Medicines Agency and The Committee on
Health Research Ethics.

After the last trial participant, last visit (1420 trial participants with a complete 30-day, 6- and 12-month
follow-up), the end of the trial will be reported within 90 days to the relevant authorities or according to
national law. All events, reactions and results of the study will be reported to the EudraCT database results
within a year after termination of the study.



6. Study administration
6.1 Ethics and dissemination
Trial participant insurances will be in place at all trial centres either through the national health insurance or
through specifically supplied local trial insurances as required according to the specific trial centres and
national regulations.

This RCT will be conducted in compliance with the published trial protocol, the Helsinki Declaration in its
latest version,28 the Good Clinical Practice (GCP) guidelines29 and national laws in the participating
countries. The protocol will be sent to the Danish Committee on Health Research Ethics for the Capital
Region of Denmark and The Danish Medicines Agency. It will be monitored by the regional Good Clinical
Practice Unit. Data management must be approved according to national legislation. We have written the
protocol in accordance with the SPIRIT 2013 Statement19 and will register the trial in the
www.clinicaltrials.gov and European Union Drug Regulating Authorities Clinical Trials (EudraCT)
registries before the enrolment of the first trial participant. No substantial deviation from the protocol will be
implemented without prior review and approval of the regulatory authorities except where it may be
necessary to eliminate an immediate hazard to the trial participants. In such case, the deviation will be
reported to the authorities as soon as possible.

As stated in section 3.4.2 regarding consent procedures in Denmark, the trial participants in this study are
considered temporarily incompetent because of the acute and severe condition related to their traumatic
injuries. Symptoms will include severe pain, impaired consciousness, and early complications are circulatory
and respiratory failure requiring emergency intubation. Some of these trial participants are expected to die.
Current practice is that supplemental oxygen is administered as soon as possible after trauma often
prehospitally. Thus, the intervention tested in this trial is pivotal to be given immediately in the early phase
after trauma. Furthermore, it is stated above that a liberal supplemental oxygen strategy may be detrimental
and should be avoided as soon as possible. Therefore, we cannot delay enrolment and need to use the consent
procedures for emergency research. To make clinical trials with the goal of improving the treatment of
traumatic injuries it is necessary to include unconscious and incompetent patients as no clinically relevant
animal model exists. In other countries, national law will be followed in terms of including patients
considered temporarily incompetent.



                                                                                                                 65
Oxygen is a well-known drug given in a dosage of FiO2 0.21-1.0 and can be administered by paramedics,
nurses, and doctors. The side-effects of normobaric oxygen-strategies include slightly decreased heart rate as
well as increased risk of atelectasis, pleuritis and respiratory distress syndrome. The greater the FiO2, the
greater the risk. As the standard treatment of care currently includes high levels of FiO2, it seems plausible
that the intervention group will have a decreased risk for developing these side-effects. On the other side,
hypoxia is documented to be deleterious. To avoid the risk of hypoxia, all trial participants will be monitored
with continuous pulse oximetry and arterial blood gases to avoid desaturation. If the saturation is
unmeasurable due to e.g. hypovolemia or hypothermia the treating physician will decide and document the
treatment of choice. When measurable again, the allocated intervention will resume. In the TRAUMOX1
trial, we observed only seven episodes of desaturation (SpO2 below 90%) in the restrictive group (median
87% [87-89]). Of note, five of the seven cases of SpO2 below 89% occurred in two trial participants; one trial
participant who had just been extubated and another trial participant who went into cardiac arrest for another
reason than hypoxemia.

The trial participants receiving the standard treatment and what is recommended in current guidelines (liberal
oxygen) will not be put at any additional risk compared to trial participants not enrolled in the study.
However, we suspect this standard treatment is not always beneficial. As outlined in the background section,
we hypothesise that a liberal supplemental oxygen strategy may be detrimental and should be avoided as
soon as possible. Thus, the restrictive supplemental oxygen (intervention group) may be associated with
fewer side effects, with no additional risk, as seen in other trial participant populations. Therefore, we
believe that this study may be beneficial for the single trial participant.
Finally, there will be no risk of delaying treatment due to enrolment, as the treating physician will be treating
the trial participant as usual, until the randomisation results are available, and the allocation has begun.
Therefore, we think that the study will add no risk for the included trial participants.

6.2 Timeline of study progress
Approvals will be applied for spring 2021 initially in Denmark. First inclusion is expected autumn 2021,
enrolment completed spring 2023 and data analysis and manuscript drafting autumn 2023. The submission of
primary paper is expected at the beginning of year 2024. See figure 2.

6.3 Publication policy
The study results will be published in an appropriate international peer-reviewed scientific journals. When
study results are published, it will be announced on the study website https://www.traumox2.org/. The study
will be registered, and study results will be disclosed by the coordinating principal investigator in one or
more public clinical study registry(ies), according to national/international use, including both positive,
negative and inconclusive results. The registration will include a list of the investigational centres. The
steering committee and the primary centre investigator (active) will be listed as co-authors in the
publications. If the centre involves prehospital inclusion the prehospital centre investigator (active) will be
co-author. Top-enrolling centres will be able to designate one additional co-author for every completely
documented 100 trial participants. All authors must fulfil the criteria for authorship according to the ICMJE
group. Each contributing centre can designate a reasonable number of active collaborators that participates in
the study administration. These collaborators will be mentioned in the TRAUMOX2-study group and will be
trackable via PubMed. In line with the principles of data preservation and sharing, the steering committee
will, after publication of the overall dataset, consider all reasonable requests to make the dataset available in
whole or part for secondary analyses and scientific publication. The steering committee will consider



                                                                                                              66
proposals for secondary analyses on the basis of the scientific quality of the proposal. Proposals will need to
be revised and approved by the steering committee prior to submission.

6.4 Data monitoring and safety committee (DMSC)
An independent data monitoring- and safety committee (DMSC) will be set up. The committee will include a
statistician. The committee will meet when 30-day follow-up of 355 (approximately 25% of the sample size
estimation) and 710 (approximately 50% of the sample size estimation) trial participants has been obtained.
Prior to the meeting, a biostatistician will perform an interim analysis with blinded data provided by the
sponsor and principal investigator. Criteria for premature termination will be decided by steering committee.
Furthermore, the sponsor has the responsibility to report the overall number of serious adverse events (SAEs)
yearly to the DMSC. The DMSC charter has been approved by DMSC members and the Danish Medicines
Agency. The content of the charter is:




                                                                                                             67
     Charter for the Data Monitoring and Safety
       Committee (DMSC) for TRAUMOX2

                             Version 1.1

                          Date: 24-08-2022

 Comparing Restrictive versus Liberal Oxygen Strategies for Trauma
                 Patients: The TRAUMOX2 Trial




                 EudraCT number: 2021-000556-19
      Danish Research Ethics Committee number: H-21018062
             ClinicalTrials.gov number: NCT05146700




Chief investigator and sponsor: Professor Jacob Steinmetz, M.D., Ph.D.




                                                                         68
Introduction

This charter will define the responsibilities of the independent DMSC, the members, the purpose of
the DMSC and the timing of the meetings. The DMSC is answerable for the safety of trial
participants, assessing the safety and efficacy of the interventions during the trial, and for
monitoring the overall conduct of the clinical trial. The DMSC is obliged to follow the EU Clinical
Trials Directive 2001/20/EC while assessing the study and to keep all patient-level data
confidential. The DMSC consists of three clinicians with expertise in critical emergency care
research and an independent biostatistician. The DMSC members have been chosen in order to
avoid any financial or intellectual conflicts of interest. The members have agreed to this task for the
entire duration of the clinical trial. However, should any members leave the DMSC during the trial,
the steering committee will appoint the replacement(s). The DMSC is independent from the sponsor
and the trial investigators. The DMSC will be notified of all changes to the protocol or changes in
trial conduct. The clinicians of the DMSC will be unpaid. The biostatistician will be paid for the
hours spent on data analysis prior to the DMSC meetings.



Timing of the meetings

Two interim analysis meetings will be held to review data relating to treatment efficacy, patient
safety, and quality of trial conduct (e.g. enrollment progression). The four members of the DMSC
will meet either physically or online when 30-day follow-up data (primary outcome) of 355
(approximately 25 % of sample size estimation) and 710 (approximately 50 % of sample size
estimation) patients have been obtained. The trial will continue while the DMSC review the data.
The DMSC will be specifically notified by e-mail by the sponsor or coordinating investigator when
approximately 20 % and 45 % of the patients are included due to scheduling and arranging the first
and second meeting. Furthermore, it is optional for the DMSC members to receive the newsletters
from the trial. The DMSC will be responsible for scheduling and arranging the meetings. Data will
be provided to the DMSC at least 5 days prior to their meetings.



Interim data review

The DMSC will review non-identifiable person data for 30-day mortality at the two predetermined
time points. In addition, at the second interim analysis, the DMSC will also consider available data
on major lung complications defined as pneumonia and acute respiratory distress syndrome within
30 days after trauma. The DMSC can at any time request extra reviews if necessary. The data will
be provided to the biostatistician in Excel. One row will represent one trial participant and each
column will be a data variable. The data variables included in the raw data output are:

1: record_id (a number that uniquely identifies the patient)



                                                                                                     69
2: scr_incl_randomisation (the randomisation code: group A or B)

3: outc_prim_30d_mort (occurrence of death within 30 days: 0 = no, 1 = yes, 999 = missing data,
blank field = data not entered, still pending)

4: outc_prim_30d_pneu (occurrence of pneumonia within 30 days: 0 = no, 1 = yes, 999 = missing
data, blank field = data not entered, still pending)

5: outc_prim_30d_ards (occurrence of acute respiratory distress syndrome within 30 days: 0 = no, 1
= yes, 999 = missing data, blank field = data not entered, still pending)

The DMSC statistician will provide aggregate data analysis for variable 3, 4 and 5 in two-by-two
tables stratified on variable 2 (renamed randomisation code blinded by an external person). The data
provided is only to evaluate on treatment efficacy and patient safety. Thus, no other data variables
will be provided.

The DMSC may recommend stopping the trial at each of the two interim analyses if a major
difference in 30-day mortality is found. There are no strict stopping criteria, but it is suggested that
the recommendation should be based on only a considerable difference, such as a relative risk
where the lower limit of the 95 % CI is >2 (regardless of which group is nominator). The same
applies to both the first and second interim analysis. There should be no premature ending of the
trial for futility before completion of the preplanned inclusion of 1420 patients with a complete 30-
day follow-up.



Content of the DMSC reports

After each of the two reviews, the DMSC will produce a short report to the steering committee with
recommendations for continuation, modifications, or premature termination of the trial. The DMSC
will be advisory to the steering committee. Therefore, the final decision regarding potential
modifications or termination will rest with the steering committee.



Members of the DMSC

Bodil Steen Rasmussen, MD, Ph.D.
Chairman of the Data Monitoring and Safety Committee
Professor
Department of Anesthesia and Intensive Care
Aalborg University Hospital

Lars Wiuff Andersen, MD, M.P.H., Ph.D., D.M.Sc.
Member of the Data Monitoring and Safety Committee


                                                                                                      70
Associate professor
Department of Anesthesiology and Intensive Care Medicine
Aarhus University Hospital
Research Center for Emergency Medicine
Aarhus University Hospital and Aarhus University
Prehospital Emergency Medical Services
Central Denmark Region

Marius Rehn, MD, Ph.D.
Member of the Data Monitoring and Safety Committee
Associate professor
Consultant Anaesthesiologist and pre-hospital critical care doctor
Department of Research and Development
Norwegian Air Ambulance Foundation
Oslo, Norway Air Ambulance Department
Division of Prehospital Services
Oslo University Hospital
Norway Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Stavanger
Stavanger, Norway

Brice Ozenne, biostatistician
Member of the Data Monitoring and Safety Committee
Assistant professor
Department of Public Health, Section of Biostatistics
University of Copenhagen
Denmark
Neurobiology Research Unit and BrainDrugs
Copenhagen University Hospital
Rigshospitalet
Denmark




                                                                     71
Read and agreed by

Bodil Steen Rasmussen

Date: 20-12-2021

Signature:



Lars Wiuff Andersen

Date:

Signature:



Marius Rehn

Date:

Signature:



Brice Ozenne

Date: 19-12-2021

Signature:




                        72
Change log

24-08-2022: Renamed the variable names in this charter for variable 3, 4 and 5 due to changes in
the database. For all 3 variables, a description of the values “999 = missing data” and “blank field =
data not entered, still pending” was added.

All members have read and agreed to the updated DMSC charter version 1.1.




                                                                                                    73
6.5 Archiving of documents
The investigator will keep the subject’s files and original data according to the local methods and facilities.
The investigator should maintain the trial documents as specified in the ICH-GCP-Guideline for 10 years.
The investigator/institution should take measures to prevent accidental or premature destruction of these
documents.

6.6 Funding
TRAUMOX2 is initiated by a research group of medical doctors in “Afdeling for Bedøvelse, Operation og
TraumeCenter 6011, HovedOrtoCentret, Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen, Denmark”. It is funded by the Novo
Nordisk Foundation which is a non-profit organisation. The duration of the funding is 4 years and the
amount granted is 6.326.084 DKK. It covers the sponsor’s and coordinating investigator’s salary, the
overhead and completion costs, including that each participating centre will receive 150 euro per trial
participant included with completely documented trial participants (after 30 days). Each centre will distribute
the amount as agreed upon within the local organization. The Novo Nordisk Foundation is not involved in
the management of the study itself, or the decision to submit the manuscript for publication, but will be
mentioned in all public communication, and any publication resulting from the project will be mentioned as
”The work presented in this article is supported by Novo Nordisk Foundation grant NNF20OC0063985”.
The funding will be paid to a bank account within the department in the sponsor’s name. The sponsor and
coordinating investigator have no conflicts of interests in relation to the Novo Nordisk Foundation. In
addition, the study is also partly funded by The Lundbeck Foundation as a personal grant of 350.000 DKK to
study coordinator Josefine Baekgaard. Some of this grant will be spent on salary to Baekgaard as well as
unexpected expenses to the trial. Drug expenses will be covererd by the participating centres’ departmental
budget. Drug expenses beyond the normal department budget will also be covered by the participating
centres.

6.7 Protocol changes
Can only be decided by the steering committee of the study.




                                                                                                              74
Figure 1 – Participant timeline




Figure 2 – Timeline of study progress




                                        75
7. References
1.    American College of Surgeons: The Committee on Trauma. ATLS: Advanced Trauma Life Support
      (Student Course Manual), 10th Edition.; 2018. doi:10.1111/j.1365-2044.1993.tb07026.x

2.    Mosby, American College of Surgeons, National Association of Emergency. PHTLS: Basic and
      Advanced Prehospital Trauma Life Support, 5th Edition.; 2003.

3.    Hale KE, Gavin C, O’Driscoll BR. Audit of oxygen use in emergency ambulances and in a hospital
      emergency department. Emerg Med J. 2008;25(11):773-776. doi:10.1136/emj.2008.059287

4.    McMullan J, Rodriquez CmsD, Ward KW, et al. Prevalence of Prehospital Hypoxemia and Oxygen
      Use in Trauma Patients. Mil Med. 2013;178(10):1121-1125. doi:10.7205/MILMED-D-13-00126

5.    Boyle M, Wong J. Prescribing oxygen therapy. An audit of oxygen prescribing practices on medical
      wards at North Shore Hospital, Auckland, New Zealand. N Z Med J. 2006;119(1238):31-35.

6.    Eskesen TG, Baekgaard JS, Steinmetz J, Rasmussen LS. Initial use of supplementary oxygen for
      trauma patients: A systematic review. BMJ Open. 2018;8(7):1-7. doi:10.1136/bmjopen-2017-020880

7.    Chu DK, Kim LHY, Young PJ, et al. Mortality and morbidity in acutely ill adults treated with liberal
      versus conservative oxygen therapy (IOTA): a systematic review and meta-analysis. Lancet.
      2018;391(10131):1693-1705. doi:10.1016/S0140-6736(18)30479-3

8.    Taher A, Pilehvari Z, Poorolajal J, Aghajanloo M. Effects of Normobaric Hyperoxia in Traumatic
      Brain Injury: A Randomized Controlled Clinical Trial. Trauma Mon. 2016;21(1):1-5.
      doi:10.5812/traumamon.26772

9.    Suzuki S, Eastwood GM, Peck L, Glassford NJ, Bellomo R. Current oxygen management in
      mechanically ventilated patients: A prospective observational cohort study. J Crit Care.
      2013;28(5):647-654. doi:10.1016/j.jcrc.2013.03.010

10.   Helmerhorst HJF, Schultz MJ, Van Der Voort PHJ, et al. Effectiveness and Clinical Outcomes of a
      Two-Step Implementation of Conservative Oxygenation Targets in Critically Ill Patients: A Before
      and After Trial. Crit Care Med. 2016;44(3):554-563. doi:10.1097/CCM.0000000000001461

11.   Eskesen TG, Baekgaard JS, Christensen RE, et al. Supplemental oxygen and hyperoxemia in trauma
      patients: A prospective, observational study. Acta Anaesthesiol Scand. 2019;63(4):531-536.
      doi:10.1111/aas.13301

12.   Staehr-Rye AK, Meyhoff CS, Scheffenbichler FT, et al. High intraoperative inspiratory oxygen
      fraction and risk of major respiratory complications. Br J Anaesth. 2017;119(1):140-149.
      doi:10.1093/bja/aex128

13.   Six S, Jaffal K, Ledoux G, Jaillette E, Wallet F, Nseir S. Hyperoxemia as a risk factor for ventilator-
      associated pneumonia. Crit Care. 2016;20(195):1-8. doi:10.1186/s13054-016-1368-4

14.   Allegranzi B, Zayed B, Bischoff P, et al. New WHO recommendations on intraoperative and
      postoperative measures for surgical site infection prevention: an evidence-based global perspective.
      Lancet Infect Dis. 2016;16(12):e288-e303. doi:10.1016/S1473-3099(16)30402-9

15.   Eastwood G, Bellomo R, Bailey M, et al. Arterial oxygen tension and mortality in mechanically
      ventilated patients. Intensive Care Med. 2012;38(1):91-98. doi:10.1007/s00134-011-2419-6



                                                                                                             76
16.   Helmerhorst HJF, Arts DL, Schultz MJ, et al. Metrics of Arterial Hyperoxia and Associated
      Outcomes in Critical Care*. Crit Care Med. 2017;45(2):187-195.
      doi:10.1097/CCM.0000000000002084

17.   Schjørring OL, Klitgaard TL, Perner A, et al. Lower or Higher Oxygenation Targets for Acute
      Hypoxemic Respiratory Failure. N Engl J Med. Published online 2021:1-11.
      doi:10.1056/nejmoa2032510

18.   Baekgaard JS, Isbye D, Ottosen CI, et al. Restrictive vs liberal oxygen for trauma patients-the
      TRAUMOX1 pilot randomised clinical trial. Acta Anaesthesiol Scand. 2019;63(7):947-955.
      doi:10.1111/aas.13362

19.   Chan A-W, Tetzlaff JM, Altman DG, et al. SPIRIT 2013 Statement : Defining Standard Protocol
      Items for Clinical Trials. Ann Intern Med. 2013;158(3):200-207. doi:10.7326/0003-4819-158-3-
      201302050-00583.Requests

20.   Harris PA, Taylor R, Thielke R, Payne J, Gonzalez N, Conde JG. Research electronic data capture
      (REDCap)-A metadata-driven methodology and workflow process for providing translational
      research informatics support. J Biomed Inform. 2009;42(2):377-381. doi:10.1016/j.jbi.2008.08.010

21.   CDC: National Healthcare Safety Network. Pneumonia (Ventilator-Associated [VAP] and Non-
      Ventilator-Associated Pneumonia [PNEU]) Event.; 2021.
      https://www.cdc.gov/nhsn/pdfs/pscmanual/6pscvapcurrent.pdf

22.   Ranieri VM, Rubenfeld GD, Thompson BT, et al. Acute respiratory distress syndrome: The Berlin
      definition. JAMA. 2012;307(23):2526-2533. doi:10.1001/jama.2012.5669

23.   Savitsky B, Givon A, Rozenfeld M, Radomislensky I, Peleg K. Traumatic brain injury: It is all about
      definition. Brain Inj. 2016;30(10):1194-1200. doi:10.1080/02699052.2016.1187290

24.   Demetriades D, Murray J, Charalambides K, et al. Trauma Fatalities: Time and Location of Hospital
      Deaths. J Am Coll Surg. 2004;198(1):20-26. doi:10.1016/j.jamcollsurg.2003.09.003

25.   Mallinckrodt CH, Lin Q, Molenberghs M. A structured framework for assessing sensitivity to missing
      data assumptions in longitudinal clinical trials. Pharm Stat. 2013;12(1):1-6. doi:10.1002/pst.1547

26.   The European Parliament and the Council of the European Union. REGULATION (EU) No 536/2014
      OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL of 16 April 2014 on Clinical Trials
      on Medicinal Products for Human Use, and Repealing Directive 2001/20/EC.; 2014.
      doi:10.1093/med/9780199609147.003.0017

27.   Cook D, Lauzier F, Rocha MG, Sayles MJ, Finfer S. Serious adverse events in academic critical care
      research. CMAJ. 2008;178(9):1181-1184. doi:10.1503/cmaj.071366

28.   World Medical Association. WMA Declaration of Helsinki - Ethical Principles for Medical Research
      Involving Human Subjects.; 2013. https://www.wma.net/policies-post/wma-declaration-of-helsinki-
      ethical-principles-for-medical-research-involving-human-subjects/

29.   European Medicines Agency. Guideline for Good Clinical Practice - E6 (R2).; 2016.




                                                                                                         77
                  TRAUMOX2 protocol log changes

Version 1.4
30/09/2021
Version 1.5     Front page
08/12/2021          x Added new version number, date, research ethics committee number
                        journal number and clinicaltrials.gov number
                General information
                    x Changed date and protocol version
                    x Added name and affiliation of our biostatistician for the DMSC
                6.4 Data monitoring and safety committee (DMSC)
                    x Added name and affiliation of our biostatistician for the DMSC
                    x Added that the DMSC charter will be added as an appendix to the
                        protocol when it’s ready. It will be ready before the comite begins its
                        work.
                Typography
                    x Corrected minor typographical words a few places in the protocol
Version 1.6     General information
23/02/2022          x Added foreign investigators
                Protocol synopsis
                    x Added EudraCT, clinicaltrials.gov and VEK number
                    x Changed Videnscenter for Dataanmeldelser to the English name
                3.4 Recruitment, consent and assignment of interventions
                    x Trauma bay: Changed that the trauma leader must be the including
                        physician, e.g. the including physician may be the trauma leader or
                        the attending anaesthesiologist
                3.8.1 Major protocol violations
                    x Added the new, revised major protocol violations
                6.4 Data monitoring and safety committee (DMSC)
                    x Added the DMSC charter
Version 1.7     Appendices
03/08/2022          x Added appendix 14: Protocol amendment TRAUMOX2 -
                        Biomarkers of oxidative stress in patients receiving a liberal or
                        restrictive oxygen strategy; it will only take place at Rigshospitalet,
                        Copenhagen
                    x Added appendix 15: Specific trial participant information on
                        biomarker study
                    x Added appendix 16: Specific trial participant consent form on
                        biomarker study
                    x Added appendix 17: Specific next of kin information on biomarker
                        study
                    x Added appendix 18: Specific next of kin consent form on biomarker
                        study
                3.8.1 Major protocol violations
                     x Changed the restrictive violation for intubated trial participants from
                         “FiO2 ≥0.4 and having an SpO2 ≥98% (…)” to “FiO2 >0.4 and
                         having an SpO2 ≥98% (…)”
Version 1.7.1   General information
25/08/2022           x Added Bern investigators and Bern as study site
                Appendices
                     x Stated that the appendices are applicable in Denmark


                                                                                              78
                3.1 Study design and setting
                     x Specified that all trauma centres must be within the continental
                        Europe and not as part of the European Union
Version 1.7.2   General information
22/10/2022           x Added Antwerp investigator and Antwerp as study site
Version 1.8     5.3 Adverse Events and Serious Adverse Events
21/11/2022           x Specified in detail how to register the two adverse events in the
                        study
                DMSC charter
                     x Updated it to version 1.1




                                                                                           79
    Comparing Restrictive vs. Liberal Oxygen Strategies
      for Trauma Patients: The TRAUMOX2 Trial –
                Statistical Analysis Plan
    Tobias Arleth, MD1, Josefine Baekgaard, MD, Ph.D.1, Volkert Siersma, Ph.D.2, Markus Klimek,
    MD, Ph.D.3, Jochen Hinkelbein, MD, Dr. Med. DESA, EDIC, FAsMA4, Lars Simon Rasmussen,
          MD, Ph.D., DMSc1, Jacob Steinmetz, MD, Ph.D.1,5 for the TRAUMOX2 study group


1
    Department of Anaesthesia, Centre of Head and Orthopaedics, University of Copenhagen,
Rigshospitalet, Denmark
2
    The Research Unit for General Practice and Section of General Practice, Department of Public
Health, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark
3
    Department of Anaesthesiology, Erasmus MC, University Medical Centre Rotterdam, Rotterdam,
The Netherlands
4
    Department of Anaesthesiology, Intensive Care Medicine and Emergency Medicine, Johannes
Wesling Klinikum Minden, University Hospital of Ruhr University Bochum, Minden, Germany
5
    Danish Air Ambulance, Denmark


ORCID numbers:
Tobias Arleth: 0000-0002-7484-6207
Josefine Widding Baekgaard: 0000-0002-5420-723X
Volkert Siersma: 0000-0003-1941-2681
Markus Klimek: 0000-0002-0122-9929
Jochen Hinkelbein: 0000-0003-3585-9459
Lars Simon Rasmussen: 0000-0002-7480-3004
Jacob Steinmetz: 0000-0001-9620-8911

Trial registration: EudraCT number: 2021-000556-19; ClinicalTrials.gov identifier:
NCT05146700 (date of registration: December 7th, 2021)

SAP version: 1.0

SAP date: 11-01-2023

SAP revisions: None



                                                                                                   80
Protocol version: 1.8

Signatures of 1st author, senior statistician, and chief investigator:


         Tobias Arleth                    Volkert Siersma                  Jacob Steinmetz
           1st author                    Senior statistician        Chief investigator and sponsor




Corresponding author:
Tobias Arleth, MD
Department of Anaesthesia
Centre of Head and Orthopaedics
Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen
Denmark
E-mail: tobias.arleth@regionh.dk
Phone: +45 35 45 95 02




                                                                                                 81
Abstract
Background: The international ATLS (Advanced Trauma Life Support) guidelines recommend that all
severely injured trauma patients receive supplemental oxygen based on very limited evidence. The
TRAUMOX2 trial randomises adult trauma patients to a restrictive or liberal oxygen strategy for eight hours.
The primary composite outcome consists of 30-day mortality and/or development of major respiratory
complications (pneumonia and/or acute respiratory distress syndrome; ARDS). This manuscript presents the
statistical analysis plan for TRAUMOX2.

Methods: Patients are randomised 1:1 in variable block sizes of four, six and eight, stratified by including
centre (prehospital base or trauma centre) and tracheal intubation at inclusion. The trial will include 1420
patients to be able to detect a 33% relative risk reduction with the restrictive oxygen strategy of the
composite primary outcome with 80% power at the 5% significance level. We will conduct modified
intention-to-treat analyses on all randomised patients and per-protocol analyses for the primary composite
outcome and key secondary outcomes. The primary composite outcome and two key secondary outcomes
will be compared between the two allocated groups using logistic regression reported as odds ratios (ORs)
with 95% confidence intervals (CI) adjusted for the stratification variables as in the primary analysis. A P-
value below 5% will be considered statistically significant. A Data Monitoring and Safety Committee
(DMSC) has been established to conduct interim analyses after inclusion of 25% and 50% of the patients.

Conclusions: This statistical analysis plan of the TRAUMOX2 trial will minimise bias and add transparency
to the statistics applied in the analysis of the trial. The results will add evidence on restrictive and liberal
supplemental oxygen strategies for trauma patients.

Registration: ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT05146700 (date of registration: December 7th, 2021).
European Union Drug Regulation Authorities Clinical Trials Database, EudraCT number: 2021-000556-19.




                                                                                                                82
INTRODUCTION
The international ATLS (Advanced Trauma Life Support) guidelines recommend that all severely injured
trauma patients receive supplemental oxygen1 based on very limited evidence.2,3 Thus, supplemental oxygen
is commonly used in trauma patients4–12, although it may lead to hyperoxaemia which has been associated
with pulmonary complications and increased mortality.13,14 The TRAUMOX2 trial15 randomises adult
patients with suspected major trauma to eight hours of a restrictive or liberal oxygen strategy. The restrictive
group receives the lowest dosage of oxygen (>21%) that ensures an SpO2 of 94%. The liberal group receives
12-15 L O2/min or FiO2 = 0.6-1.0. The primary objective of TRAUMOX2 is to compare the effect of these
two oxygen strategies on 30-day mortality and/or development of major respiratory complications
(pneumonia and/or acute respiratory distress syndrome; ARDS) (primary composite outcome). This
manuscript presents the statistical analysis plan for TRAUMOX2.




                                                                                                              83
METHODS
This statistical analysis plan of the TRAUMOX2 trial has been written according to the Guidelines for the
Content of Statistical Analysis Plans in Clinical Trials.16 It aims to give an overview and justification of the
chosen variables and statistical methods used in TRAUMOX2. The database system used for this trial is
REDCap.17 The plan is prepared while the trial is still including patients and thus before the database is
exported for analysis by the trial statistician. All analyses of the primary and secondary outcomes will be
conducted according to this publication. The steering committee of the trial approved this statistical analysis
plan on the 11th of January 2023.

The TRAUMOX2 trial has been approved by the Danish Research Ethics Committee (H-21018062), the
Danish Medicines Agency (EudraCT 2021-000556-19), the Knowledge Centre on Data Protection
Compliance, Health Science and Innovation in the Capital Region of Denmark, and by all authorities as
required at participating centres.

Trial design
TRAUMOX2 is an investigator-initiated, international, multicentre, parallel-grouped, superiority, primary
outcome assessor- and analyst-blinded, randomised, controlled, clinical trial.

Randomisation and blinding
Patients are randomised 1:1 in variable block sizes of four, six and eight, stratified by including centre
(prehospital base or trauma centre) and tracheal intubation (yes/no) at inclusion. The randomisation table was
generated outside of REDCap by a statistician otherwise not affiliated with the study. The allocation
sequence list and specific block size are only known by this statistician and will remain concealed from the
investigators. Prior to randomisation, consent must be obtained either by proxy (from another physician) or
according to national legislation. Immediately afterwards, randomisation is done by opening a concealed
envelope with information on allocation. Each concealed envelope contains a study ID that matches a study
ID on the randomisation list generated by the statistician. Subsequently, informed consent is confirmed from
the patient or a relative in case the patient cannot give consent. National law on consent is followed if neither
the patient nor the relative can provide consent. A more detailed description of the consent procedure is
presented in the protocol and on the study website.15,18

The treating staff will be aware of the patients’ randomisation group, and due to the nature of oxygen
treatment, patients and relatives will often be aware of the allocated oxygen strategy as well. While the trial
is including patients for the study, members of the research team will also be aware of the patients’ oxygen
allocation strategy. At least two allocation-blinded primary outcome assessors (specialists in anaesthesia,
intensive care, emergency medicine or similar) will be appointed at each centre to assess in-hospital lung
complications (pneumonia and/or ARDS). Blinding will be ensured by concealing all information indicative
of the allocation prior to assessment. The trial statistician is blinded to the allocation of treatment, and
manuscript writers will become blinded to the allocation of treatment once the trial ends and data is exported
for analysis. In the exported dataset, the randomisation groups will be renamed A and B by an unblinded
research assistant otherwise not affiliated with the study. Afterwards, the renamed dataset will be forwarded
to the trial statistician for data analysis. While data is analysed, the blinded authors will write two versions of
the manuscript: one where treatment A is the liberal oxygen strategy, and another version where treatment A
is the restrictive oxygen strategy. These two manuscripts will exclude data on oxygenation during the



                                                                                                                84
intervention period, as this would reveal the allocation group. All authors must agree on both versions before
unblinding.

Sample size calculation
In TRAUMOX119, the pilot study for TRAUMOX2, the primary composite outcome occurred in 20% in the
restrictive group and 33% in the liberal group. In larger studies, mortality from major trauma has been
estimated to be 6-12%20, and the incidence of ventilator associated pneumonia post trauma was almost 30%
in one study.14 In TRAUMOX2, we estimate that with 710 trial participants in each trial arm, including a
drop-out rate of 3.5%, yielding a total of 1420 patients, we will be able to detect a 33% relative risk
reduction in the incidence of the composite primary outcome (30-day mortality and/or major respiratory
complications) with a restrictive supplemental oxygen strategy with 80% power at the 5% significance level
if the incidence of our primary outcome is 15% in the liberal group and 10% in the restrictive group. This
corresponds to an absolute between-group difference of 5 percentage points.

Framework
The primary analysis will be conducted as a superiority trial to test whether the restrictive group is superior
to the liberal group.

Statistical interim analysis and stopping guidance
An independent data monitoring- and safety committee (DMSC) has been set up. The committee includes a
statistician. The committee met when information on 30-day mortality had been collected in 355 patients
(approximately 25% of the envisioned sample size) and recommended the trial to continue. The DMSC will
meet again when 30-day mortality has been collected in 710 patients (approximately 50% of the sample size
estimation). In addition, at the second interim analysis, the DMSC will also consider available data on major
respiratory complications. Prior to the meetings, the DMSC statistician performs an interim analysis with
data blinded towards the allocation. There are no strict stopping criteria, but in the DMSC charter, it is
suggested that a recommendation should be based on only a considerable difference, such as a relative risk
where the lower limit of the 95% confidence interval is >2 (regardless of which group is nominator). This
applies to both the first and second interim analysis. There will be no premature ending of the trial for futility
before the preplanned inclusion of 1420 patients. In addition, the sponsor has the responsibility to report the
overall number of annual SAEs to the committee. The DMSC will have an advisory role to the steering
committee and therefore the final decision regarding potential modifications or termination will rest with the
steering committee. Detailed information on the DMSC is available on the study website
(www.traumox2.org).

Timing of outcome assessments and final analysis
The registered variables at baseline, during intervention and during admission (in-hospital) are presented in
Tables 1, 2 and 4. In addition to the variables collected during the intervention (Table 2), a figure displaying
the median hourly SpO2 with interquartile range for both groups will be made. The primary composite
outcome and key secondary outcomes are presented in Table 3. The exploratory secondary outcomes at day
30 are available in Table 4. A long-term follow-up is assessed at six- and 12 months on morbidity and
quality-of-life outside the scope of the primary analysis. A 12-month mortality will also be assessed. The
primary analysis can begin 30 days after the last patient has been included.




                                                                                                               85
STATISTICAL PRINCIPALS
Confidence intervals and P values
We will use a significance level of 5% and thus 95% confidence intervals (CI) on our estimates. Significance
tests will be two sided. The exploratory secondary outcomes will be adjusted for multiple testing by having
their P-values, and thus 95% CIs, assessed using a significance level lower than 5% according to the
Benjamini-Hochberg method.21 Hence, for the P-values of the exploratory secondary outcomes it will be
indicated whether they are significant while controlling the false discovery rate at 5%.

Adherence and protocol deviations
For all TRAUMOX2 trial participants, it is possible to deviate from the protocol if clinically justified by the
treating physician. These reasons should always be documented in REDCap.

A major protocol violation will be defined as:

• Restrictive O2 group, during the intervention period

For non-intubated trial participants: Supplemental oxygen ≥3 L O2/min AND an SpO2 ≥98% recorded at two
consecutive hourly time points on the data collection sheet.
For intubated trial participants: FiO2 >0.4 AND an SpO2 ≥98% recorded at two consecutive hourly time
points on the data collection sheet.

• Liberal O2 group, during the intervention period

For non-intubated trial participants: Supplemental oxygen <3 L O2/min at two consecutive hourly time points
on the data collection sheet.
For intubated trial participants: FiO2 <0.4 at two consecutive hourly time points on the data collection sheet.

For the main paper, data on protocol deviations and major protocol violations will be presented in Table 2.

Analysis populations
We will conduct modified intention-to-treat analyses on all randomised patients.22 The modification is based
on the exclusion criterion stating that trauma patients are secondarily excluded after randomisation and
trauma centre diagnostics (e.g. secondary survey after CT scan), if the latter has resulted in expected
discharge within 24 hours (due to few or no injuries). If consent is withdrawn for a patient, no data after the
day will be collected. Please see Figure 1. Per-protocol analyses will also be carried out, but only for the
primary composite outcome and key secondary outcomes. The per-protocol population is the same as the
modified intention-to-treat population with exclusion of those having one or more major protocol violations.




                                                                                                              86
TRIAL POPULATION
Screening, eligibility and recruitment
Screening, eligibility, and recruitment is conducted as stated in the trial protocol.15 A CONSORT23 flow
diagram is presented in Figure 1.

Baseline patient characteristics
Baseline variables for all analysed patients are presented in Table 1. Data will be summarised with numbers
and percentages for categorical variables and medians with interquartile ranges (IQRs) for continuous
variables. According to the CONSORT 2010 statement23, differences in baseline variables between the
restrictive oxygen group and liberal oxygen group will not explored.

Withdrawal and follow-up
Since this is an acute medical study, patients are always included upon the discretion of an including
physician. Patient or next-of-kin consent is sought after inclusion in all cases. After inclusion, patients are at
any time allowed to refrain from giving consent or withdraw consent they have given previously. If consent
is withdrawn, patients are followed up until this time point. However, the participating centres’ individual
approach will always be according to national law.




                                                                                                                87
ANALYSIS
Outcome definitions

Primary outcome and key secondary outcomes
The primary outcome is a composite outcome consisting of 30-day mortality and/or major respiratory
complications (pneumonia and/or ARDS) within 30 days. The 30-day mortality is assessed using in-hospital
or national/local registries. Whenever this is not possible, for instance if the patient is a foreigner, 30-day
mortality will be sought by contacting the patient or relatives by phone or e-mail on day 30 after inclusion or
later. At least three attempts on three different days should be carried out. If no contact is obtained, and the
patient was discharged to home from either the TRAUMOX2 including hospital or a subsequent receiving
hospital, the patient is considered to be alive on day 30. However, if the patient was transferred to another
hospital without medical record access for TRAUMOX2 investigators, 30-day vital status is considered
unknown and 30-day mortality is then considered as missing data. The definition of major respiratory
complications, pneumonia and ARDS, is in accordance with the criteria described by the CDC24 and the
Berlin definition25, respectively. It is evaluated through the available medical record system via a blinded
assessment by at least two specialists in anaesthesia, intensive care medicine, emergency medicine or similar
appointed at each centre. If the patient is transferred to another hospital, and the medical record from that
hospital until day 30 is not available, the assessment will be based on the available medical record from the
TRAUMOX2 participating centre only. However, an attempt of obtaining the medical record of the receiving
facility will be carried out and will be included in the primary outcome assessment if possible.

The two key secondary outcomes are 30-day mortality and major respiratory complications (pneumonia
and/or ARDS) within 30 days, respectively.

The details of all primary and key secondary outcomes are presented in Table 3.

In-hospital registrations and exploratory secondary outcomes
Additional outcomes are presented in Table 4.

Analysis methods

Primary composite outcome
The primary composite outcome will be compared between the two groups using logistic regression and
reported as odds ratio (OR) with 95% CI, adjusted for the stratification variables. An additional analysis for
the primary composite outcome using logistic regression will be made with adjustment for the stratification
variables, age, sex, ISS, and the first available GCS score after trauma. Excess association within the
stratification is adjusted for through the method of generalized estimating equations (GEE) the including
base as a clustering variable. Potential differential dropout from the study – through late withdrawal of
consent or unreachable for follow-up – is adjusted for through weighting of the available data by the inverse
of the probability of being observed26; the latter are estimated in a logistic regression model on baseline
characteristics and the allocation. Adjustment of the variance matrix to reflect the weighting is included in
the GEE method. Evaluation of significance will be based on the P-value.




                                                                                                             88
Key secondary outcomes
The key secondary outcomes will be analysed similarly to the primary composite outcome and adjusted for
the same covariates.

Exploratory secondary outcomes
Exploratory secondary outcomes will be analysed similarly to the primary composite outcome and adjusted
for the same covariates while the type of regression is according to the type of the outcome (e.g., logistic
regression for binary outcomes and linear regression for continuous outcomes). Evaluation of significance
will be adjusted according to the Benjamini-Hochberg method.21

Subgroup analyses
The following subgroup analyses related to the primary outcome will be performed:
   x Initially intubated within one hour after trauma
   x Intensive Care Unit admission
   x Moderate or severe traumatic brain injury (Abbreviated Injury Score ≥3)
   x Known lung disease
   x Episode(s) of hypoxaemia during the intervention (SpO2 <90%)
   x Included pre-hospital vs. in-hospital
   x Injury Severity Score >15

Missing data
If patients withdraw their consent once they regain consciousness, data up until that day is collected and
stored. However, the participating centres’ individual approach will always be according to national law. If
data is available for time-dependent outcomes (e.g., outcomes that are specified to be assessed 7 or 30 days
after inclusion), the assessments will be done dependent on the timing of withdrawal of consent. In case a
time-dependent outcome occurs within the period of available data for patients who withdraw consent, the
outcome will be registered. If an outcome does not occur within the period of available data for a time-
dependent outcome, the outcome is registered as missing data. Missing outcome data, which primarily covers
the patients who withdraw consent, is adjusted for using the inverse probability weighting method described
above under primary composite outcome.

Additional analyses
A statistical analysis plan for the long-term follow-up at six- and 12 months will become available on the
study website (www.traumox2.org).

Harms

Adverse Events and Serious Adverse Events
We have chosen to register only atelectases assessed by a radiologist and irritability of airway mucosa only if
registered by the health care staff in the medical record as adverse events in accordance with established
practice in trials on critically ill patients who experience many events as part of the natural trajectory of the
primary disease process or expected as a result of the critical illness.27 For the main paper, the numbers and
frequencies will be presented as shown in the supplementary Table 1.




                                                                                                              89
Statistical software
SAS (version 9.4) will be used for all analyses.




                                                   90
Discussion
The trauma population is particularly exposed to high concentrations of oxygen5,7–9, although the supporting
evidence is extremely sparse.2,3 The TRAUMOX2 trial will add important scientific information to this area.
The aim of this statistical plan is to provide transparency of the statistics that will be used to evaluate the
data. The plan has been prepared according to current recommendations16 and presented before the last
patient has been randomised.

Randomisation is carried out with sealed envelopes stratified by intubation at inclusion and the including
centre or pre-hospital base. This simple solution was chosen to avoid randomisation challenges in the acute
setting where no internet connection may be available, for example on the road or in the air, and to make
randomisation quicker and more pragmatic. However, there is a risk, through reshuffling of the envelopes or
dispersion over multiple vehicles related to a prehospital base, that the generated allocation sequence is not
strictly followed. This would reduce the efficiency of the block-randomisation slightly as allocation may thus
be less balanced, but randomisation is not invalidated as any reshuffling is independent of the actual
allocation.

The rationale for choosing our primary composite outcome, 30-day mortality and/or development of major
respiratory complications (pneumonia and/or ARDS), falls into two categories. First, both outcomes are
patient-centred and important for the trauma patient; trauma is the leading cause of death globally for people
up till 49 years of age28 and the incidence of pneumonia is high amongst critically ill patients and lung
complications are associated with longer hospital stays and increased morbidity and mortality.29–31 Second, a
primary composite outcome can increase the statistical precision and thus the efficiency of the trial.32
Furthermore, the primary outcome is assessor-blinded to compensate for the open label intervention. Finally,
the numbers from the literature on mortality and pneumonia in trauma patients that were chosen for the
sample size calculation were based on the best available evidence including a pilot trial when the trial was
designed.

We have chosen logistic regression for our primary outcome because it is the natural choice of statistical
model in which to analyze binary outcomes. The effect estimates obtained are odds ratios that are not
dependent on the marginal distribution of the outcome and, as such, may be directly compared to odds ratio
effect estimates from similar studies but on patients with higher or lower risk. Also, we will assess the
significance of our exploratory secondary outcomes controlling for the false discovery rate at 5% with the
Benjamini-Hochberg method, which yields a lower Type I-error in our study.21

The primary challenge in the statistical analyses is the adjustment for possible differential attrition. Several
outcomes cannot, or only partly, be evaluated because of loss to follow-up, withdrawal of consent, or death.
For example, a person who dies three days after trauma has automatically a lower chance of developing
pneumonia and only a maximum of three days Intensive Care Unit stay. As the intervention is hypothesized
to have an effect on, among other things, mortality, this probable differential attrition is to be taken seriously.
We adjust for differential attrition by inverse probability weighting.26




                                                                                                                91
