                                                                                                                   7


2.2.3 Switzerland

 City                              Trauma department

 Bern                              Department of Emergency Medicine
                                   Inselspital University Hospital Bern
                                   Rosenbühlgasse 27, 3010 Bern

3. Supplementary Methods

3.1 Research ethics committee/IRB approvals

 Country                  Ethics approval

 Denmark                  The Regional Scientific Ethical Committee, approval no. H-21018062
                          First approved October 20, 2021
                          The approval was given to all participating sites in Copenhagen, Odense, and Aarhus
                          with the coordinating site in Copenhagen as the applicant

 The Netherlands          Medical Research Ethics Committee Erasmus MC, approval no. MEC-2021
                          First approved February 24, 2022

 Switzerland              Ethics Committee of the Canton Bern, approval no. 2022-01335
                          First approved November 1, 2022

3.2 Details on intervention data

The arterial oxyhemoglobin saturation measured by pulse oximetry (SpO2),the type of oxygen delivery, flow
(liters of oxygen per minute), and fraction of inspired oxygen (FiO2) values were collected and registered hourly.
In case of missing values on the data collection sheet, an approximated hourly median value of SpO 2, flow and
FiO2 were used from the medical record. The use of high-flow nasal cannula was noted on the data collection
sheet as a non-rebreather mask. In case more arterial blood gasses (ABGs) were obtained in the intervention
period besides the protocolized two ABGs at 1 hour ± 30 minutes and 6 hours ± 2 hours after randomization, the
results from the ABG closest to the designated time points were used.

3.3 Details on outcomes

3.3.1 Primary outcome and key secondary outcomes

The primary outcome was a composite of death and/or major respiratory complications within 30 days. Major
respiratory complications were defined as pneumonia based on the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
(CDC) criteria1 and/or acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) based on the Berlin definition.2 Assessment
of the primary outcome was blinded for the assessors. All primary outcome assessors were asked to guess the
treatment allocation in their assessments. The key secondary outcomes were death and major respiratory
complications within 30 days individually.

Death

Investigators registered death within 30 days using the medical record or national/local registries. If that was not
possible, for instance if the patient was a foreigner, death within 30 days was assessed by contacting the patient
or relatives by phone or e-mail at day 30 or after from the day of inclusion. At least three attempts on three
different days were carried out. If no contact was obtained, and the patient was discharged to home from either
the TRAUMOX2 participating site or subsequent receiving hospital, the patient was considered to be alive on
day 30. However, if the patient was transferred to another hospital without medical record access for
investigators, 30-day vital status was considered as missing data.




© 2024 American Medical Association. All rights reserved.
                                                                                                                    8


Major respiratory complications

The blinded assessment of pneumonia and/or ARDS within 30 days from inclusion was based on the available
medical record system. If the patient was transferred to another hospital, and the local medical record until day
30 was not available, the assessment was based on the available medical record from the TRAUMOX2
participating site only. However, an attempt of obtaining the medical record of the receiving facility was carried
out and included in the primary outcome assessment if possible. Pneumonia and ARDS diagnoses were
accompanied by dates of event. Pneumonia was categorized as non-ventilator associated pneumonia (PNEU) or
ventilator-associated pneumonia (VAP); please see the criteria below. ARDS was categorized as mild,
moderate, or severe; please see the criteria below.

A shortened version of the pneumonia CDC criteria is shown below. Please see the reference for full details.

 Pneumonia CDC criteria1

 Pneumonia (PNEU) is identified by using a combination of imaging, clinical and laboratory criteria.

 Date of event: For a PNEU/VAP the date of event is the date when the first element used to meet the PNEU
 infection criterion occurred for the first time within the 7-day Infection Window Period.

 Ventilator-associated pneumonia (VAP): A pneumonia where the patient is on mechanical ventilation for >2
 calendar days on the date of event, with day of ventilator placement being Day 1,*
 AND
 the ventilator was in place on the date of event or the day before.
 *If the ventilator was in place prior to inpatient admission, the ventilator day count begins with the admission
 date to the first inpatient location.

                Imaging Test Evidence                                        Signs/Symptoms

 Two or more serial chest imaging test results with at    For ANY PATIENT, at least one of the following:
 least one of the following:
                                                          • Fever (>38.0°C or >100.4°F)
                                                          • Leukopenia (≤4000 WBC/mm3) or leukocytosis
 New and persistent
                                                          (≥12,000 WBC/mm3)
 or
                                                          • For adults ≥70 years old, altered mental status with
 Progressive and persistent
                                                          no other recognized cause
 • Infiltrate
 • Consolidation                                          And at least two of the following:
 • Cavitation
                                                          • New onset of purulent sputum or change in
 Note: In patients without underlying pulmonary or        character of sputum, or increased respiratory
 cardiac disease (for example: respiratory distress       secretions, or increased suctioning requirements
 syndrome, bronchopulmonary dysplasia, pulmonary          • New onset or worsening cough, or dyspnea, or
 edema, or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease),        tachypnea
 one definitive imaging test result is acceptable.        • Rales or bronchial breath sounds
                                                          • Worsening gas exchange (for example: O2
                                                          desaturations (for example: PaO2/FiO2 ≤240 mmHg),
                                                          increased oxygen requirements, or increased
                                                          ventilator demand)




© 2024 American Medical Association. All rights reserved.
                                                                                                                    9


Table 3 from the ARDS reference is shown below. Please see the reference for full details.

 The Berlin Definition of Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome2

 Timing                      Within 1 week of a known clinical insult or new or worsening respiratory
                             symptoms

 Chest imaginga              Bilateral opacities—not fully explained by effusions, lobar/lung collapse, or
                             nodules

 Origin of edema             Respiratory failure not fully explained by cardiac failure or fluid overload
                             Need objective assessment (eg, echocardiography) to exclude hydrostatic edema if
                             no risk factor present

 Oxygenationb                Mild: 200 mmHg < PaO2/FIO2 ≤ 300 mmHg with PEEP or CPAP ≥5cmH2Oc

                             Moderate: 100 mmHg < PaO2/FIO2 ≤ 200 mmHg with PEEP ≥5cmH2O

                             Severe: PaO2/FIO2 ≤ 100 mmHg with PEEP ≥5cmH2O

 Abbreviations: CPAP, continuous positive airway pressure; FIO2, fraction of inspired oxygen; PaO2, partial
 pressure of arterial oxygen; PEEP, positive end-expiratory pressure.
 a Chest radiograph or computed tomography scan.
 b If altitude is higher than 1000 m, the correction factor should be calculated as follows: [PaO /FIO x
                                                                                                 2    2
 (barometric pressure/760)].
 cThis may be delivered noninvasively in the mild acute respiratory distress syndrome group.



3.3.2 Exploratory outcomes

Only exploratory outcomes that required further elaboration than what was stated in the statistical analysis plan
is mentioned in the table below.

 Outcome                    Definition

 Episode(s) of              Number of times the hourly collected SpO2 value from the data collection sheet
 hypoxemia during the       was <90%
 eight-hour intervention

 Surgical site              At least one of the following stated in the medical record (based on the CDC
 infection(s) within 30     criteria for a surgical site event 3):
 days                       • Purulent drainage
                            • Positive microbiologic testing from surgical site/wound
                            • Deliberately opened by a surgeon AND sign(s) of infection
                            • Diagnosis of surgical site infection by a surgeon

 Ventilator hours within    Ventilator hours was defined as:
 30 days                    Positive pressure ventilation at any time, including Bilevel Positive Airway
                            Pressure (BiPAP)

                            The following treatments were not considered as mechanical ventilation:
                            Non-invasive ventilation (NIV), high flow nasal cannula or Continuous Positive
                            Airway Pressure (CPAP)

                            Endotracheal intubation and mechanical ventilation during surgery were not
                            included in the above definitions if the patient was breathing spontaneously
                            without an endotracheal tube before surgery.




© 2024 American Medical Association. All rights reserved.
                                                                                                                    10




                             Only mechanical ventilation started pre-hospital, in the trauma center or in the
                             ICU was considered. Hour(s) were calculated as commenced hour(s) with no
                             decimals (eg, 1 hour and 15 minutes on mechanical ventilation = 2 hours on
                             mechanical ventilation)

 Ventilator-free days        The definition for being ventilated in the above was also applied here for
 within 30 days              calculating ventilator-free days. Days were calculated as commenced day(s) with
                             no decimals (eg, 1 hour on mechanical ventilation = 1 day = 29 days ventilator-
                             free days)

 Days alive outside the      Day(s) were calculated as commenced day(s) with no decimals (eg, 1 hour of ICU
 ICU within 30 days          admission = 1 ICU day = 29 days alive outside the ICU)

 ICU length of stay (ICU     Calculated as commenced day(s) with no decimals (eg, 25 hours of ICU admission
 LOS)                        = 2 ICU days)

 Hospital length of stay     Calculated as commenced day(s) with no decimals (eg, 25 hours of admission = 2
 (HOS LOS)                   admission days)

                             Only the primary admission was considered (no re-admissions).
                             If a patient was transferred from one hospital to another hospital for further
                             treatment related to the trauma, it was not considered a hospital discharge.
                             If a patient was transferred from the hospital to a psychiatry department or a
                             rehabilitation center for further treatment, then the day of transfer was considered
                             the date of hospital discharge

 Sepsis during hospital      Clearly stated in the patient's medical record by a physician or assigned as a
 admission                   diagnosis

 Pneumonia post-             Depending on the site: Evaluated through drugs prescribed after hospital discharge
 discharge within 30         in countries where this information was available or by calling the patients at the
 days                        6-month follow-up

We are still collecting long-term follow-up data at 6 and 12 months on functional outcome (GOSE) and quality
of life (EQ-5D-5L). This will be presented later in the follow-up study. A statistical analysis plan for handling
these data will become available on our trial website www.traumox2.org beforehand.

3.4 Adverse Events (AEs), Serious Adverse Events (SAEs) and Suspected Unexpected Serious Adverse
Reactions (SUSARs)

We defined Adverse Events (AEs) as any untoward medical occurrence in a subject to whom a medicinal
product is administered, and does not necessarily have a causal relationship with this treatment. This group of
trial patients were expected to have a lot of complications due to trauma. It is the established practice in trials on
critically ill patients that adverse events are part of the natural trajectory of the primary disease process or
expected complications of the critical illness.4 Therefore, we chose to record only the following until discharge
(but a maximum of 30 days) as AEs:

    •    Atelectasis (only atelectases assessed by a radiologist were recorded)
    •    Irritability of airway mucosa (recorded only if registered by the health care staff in the medical record)

Only the first AE of either atelectasis or irritability of airway mucosa was recorded during admission (not a
subsequent).

We defined Serious Adverse Events (SAEs) as any untoward medical occurrence that resulted in death, was life-
threatening, involved or prolonged hospital length of stay (eg, re-admission), involved persistence of significant
disability or incapacity or resulted in a congenital anomaly or birth defect.




© 2024 American Medical Association. All rights reserved.
                                                                                                                  11


To monitor AEs and SAEs, a TRAUMOX2 investigator would assess the trial participant’s medical record:

    •    Once within the first 24 hours
    •    Every third day until discharge (maximum of 30 days)

Suspected Unexpected Serious Adverse Reactions (SUSARs) were not expected in this trial given the long-
standing history for the use of supplemental oxygen in medicine for over a century with its safety profile being
well-investigated with no major safety concerns.

3.5 Major protocol violations of oxygenation

All patients with ≥1 major protocol violation of oxygenation were removed in the per-protocol analyses. The
per-protocol population was the same as the modified intention-to-treat population with exclusion of the patients
having one or more major protocol violations.

A major protocol violation of oxygenation during the eight-hour intervention was defined as:

 Restrictive oxygen group

                Non-intubated patients                                      Intubated patients

 Supplemental oxygen ≥3 liters of oxygen per minute            FiO2 >0.4 AND SpO2 ≥98% recorded at two
 AND SpO2 ≥98% recorded at two consecutive hourly          consecutive hourly time points on the data collection
       time points on the data collection sheet                                   sheet


 Liberal oxygen group

                Non-intubated patients                                      Intubated patients

 Supplemental oxygen <3 liters of oxygen per minute         FiO2 <0.4 at two consecutive hourly time points on
  at two consecutive hourly time points on the data                       the data collection sheet
                  collection sheet


3.6 Protocol deviations

For all TRAUMOX2 patients, it was possible to deviate from the protocol if clinically justified by the treating
physician. Such deviations were always documented including the clinical justification in our database.

3.7 Details on statistical analyses

3.7.1 Blinding while analyzing

The trial statistician was blinded to the treatment allocation, and the manuscript authors became blinded to the
treatment allocation once the trial concluded and the data were exported for analysis. In the exported dataset, the
randomization groups were renamed to eg, “GR12” and “GR17”, by an unblinded research assistant who was
not otherwise involved in the trial. Subsequently, the renamed dataset was provided to the trial statistician for
data analysis.

3.7.2 Handling of missing outcome data

If patients withdrew their consent once they regained consciousness, data up until that day were collected and
stored. However, the participating sites’ individual approach were always according to national law. If data were
available for time-dependent outcomes (eg, outcomes that were specified to be assessed 7 or 30 days after
inclusion), the assessments were done dependent on the timing of withdrawal of consent. In case a time-
dependent outcome occurred within the period of available data for patients who withdrew consent, the outcome
event was registered. If an outcome did not occur within the period of available data for a time-dependent
outcome, the outcome was registered as missing data.


© 2024 American Medical Association. All rights reserved.
                                                                                                                 12


Missing outcome data, which covered patients who withdrew consent or were unavailable for follow-up, was
adjusted for using inverse probability weighting.5 In this method, patients with available outcome data were
weighted by the inverse of the probability of being observed. Specifically for the primary outcome, if major
respiratory complications were not present before the consent was withdrawn, we considered both death and
major respiratory complications within 30 days to be missing. The weights were calculated in a logistic
regression model based on the allocation, the dominating injury type, the type of oxygen supply, psychiatric
comorbidity and (for Danish patients) whether a personal identification number was registered, or the use of a
temporary personal identification number. Adjustment of the variance matrix to reflect the weighting was
included in the generalized estimating equations method.




© 2024 American Medical Association. All rights reserved.
