Updated statistical analysis plan

(finalized January 20th 2018, and then endorsed by the Trial Steering Committee before
the last inclusion, locking the database and beginning statistical analysis)

1.1 Study outcomes
The primary study outcome is a collapsed composite of all postoperative pulmonary
complications (PPC) developing within the first five postoperative days. Patients who develop
a least one complication are considered as meeting the primary endpoint. Whereas single PPC
have been defined elsewhere these include mild, moderate and severe respiratory failure,
ARDS; bronchospasm, new pulmonary infiltrates, pulmonary infection, aspiration
pneumonitis, pleural effusion, atelectasis, cardiopulmonary edema and pneumothorax.
Secondary outcomes include: 1) collapsed severe PPC (any adverse pulmonary events except
mild respiratory failure); 2) postoperative extra-pulmonary complications; 3) intra-operative
adverse events as defined in the original protocol; 4) unexpected need for intensive care unit
(ICU) admission; 5) postoperative wound healing (defined as interruption in the timely and
predictable recovery of mechanical integrity in the injured tissue); 6) in-hospital mortality
and; 7) hospital-free days at postoperative day 90.

1.2 Data collection and management
Data collection is performed using electronic case report forms in Research Electronic Data
Capture (REDCap™) hosted at the Coordinating Center for Clinical Trials of the University
of Dresden, Germany. REDCap is a Secure Sockets Layer (SSL)-encrypted, passwordprotected, web-based application designed to support data capture for research. The system
had the following functions: randomization, patient registration, data input, data cleaning, and
data export for statistical analysis. Local investigators entered data directly into the system.
Instructions for using the system are available to investigators at all times. Electronic files are
archived on the University of Dresden–based server in a secure and controlled environment to
maintain confidentiality. Electronic documents are controlled with password protection
according to best practices.
The objective of the clinical data management plan is to provide high–quality data by
adopting standardized procedures to minimize the number of errors and missing data, and
consequently, to generate an accurate database for analysis. Two independent monitors are
installed to perform study monitoring. Remote monitoring is performed to signal early
aberrant patterns, issues with consistency, credibility and other anomalies. On–site monitoring
comprised controlling presence and completeness of the research dossier and the informed
consent forms, and source data checks will be performed in the files of 25 % of the patients.

1.3 Cleaning and locking of the database
The database will be locked as soon as all data are entered and all discrepant or missing data
are resolved – or if all efforts are employed and we consider that the remaining issues cannot
be fixed. At this step, the data will be reviewed before database locking. After that, the study
database will be locked and exported for statistical analysis. At this stage, permission for
access to the database will be removed for all investigators, and the database will be archived.

1.4 Missing data
No or minimal losses to follow–up for the primary and secondary outcomes are anticipated.
Complete–case analysis will be carried out for all the outcomes, that is, excluding patients
with missing data in the outcome of interest. However, if more than 1% of missing data were
found for the primary outcome, a sensitivity analysis using multiple imputations and
estimating–equation methods will be carried out.

1.5 Predefined statistical analysis plan
There were no major adjustments from the preliminary analysis plan, as reported previously.
In accordance, all statistical analyses will be conducted according to the modified intention–
to–treat principle, considering all patients in the treatment groups to which they were
randomly assigned, excluding cases lost to follow-up due to withdrawal of consent or
cancellation of surgery.
Continuous distribution of the data will be assessed by visual inspection of histograms
and D’Agostino–Pearson’s normality tests. For both arms, the baseline characteristics will be
expressed as counts and percentages, means and standard deviations (SD), or medians and
interquartile ranges (IQR) whenever appropriate.
Hypothesis tests will be two–sided with a significance level of 5% with except of the
primary outcome, due to the correction for the interim analyses. We will not adjust p–values
for multiple comparisons. Analyses will be performed using the R (R Core Team, 2016,
Vienna, Austria) program.
Trial profile: Patient flows will be presented in a CONSORT flowchart.
Baseline comparisons: Patient’s baseline characteristics will be presented by study arm.
Adherence to study interventions and ventilatory variables: Surgical and perioperative
characteristics will be reported. Ventilatory variables and vital signs will be reported after
intubation, one hour of surgery and last hour of surgery and compared between the two
groups.
Primary outcome: The effects of the intervention on incidence of PPC will be reported as
number and percentages and estimated with risk ratio and 95% confidence intervals calculated
with Wald’s likelihood ratio approximation test and with χ2 tests for hypothesis testing. The
two–sided α–level for the primary outcome is 0.044 to account for the interim analyses.
Kaplan–Meier curves will be used to report time to PPC. Curves will be compared with the
log–rank tests.
Secondary outcomes: The number and percentages of severe PPC, intra-operative adverse
events, unexpected need of ICU admission, postoperative wound healing, postoperative extrapulmonary complications and in-hospital mortality will be reported. The effect of the
intervention on these outcomes will be assessed with risk ratio and 95% confidence intervals
calculated with Wald’s likelihood ratio approximation test and with χ2 tests for hypothesis
testing. The effects of the intervention on hospital-free days at day 90 will be estimated with a
Student’s t–test and reported as the mean difference between the two groups. The consistency
of the findings of the Student’s t-test for the hospital-free days at day 90 will be confirmed
according to the mean ratio calculated by a generalized additive model considering a zeroinflated beta distribution.
Subgroup analyses: Treatment effects on incidence of PPC will be analyzed according to the
following subgroups: 1) non-laparoscopic versus laparoscopic; 2) BMI < 40 kg/m2 versus
BMI ≥ 40 kg/m2; 3) baseline SpO2 < 96% versus SpO2 ≥ 96%; 4) peripheral procedures
versus upper abdominal (surgical incision involves the abdominal wall cranial of the

umbilicus; and 5) waist-to-hip ratio < 1.0 versus waist-to-hip ratio ≥ 1.0. The effects on
subgroups will be evaluated according to the interaction effects between each subgroup and
the study arms by generalized linear models and presented in a forest plot.
Other exploratory analyses: As a sensitivity analysis, the effect of the intervention on the
primary outcome will be re-estimated using a generalized linear mixed-effect model with
stratification variable (center) as random effects. Since the primary outcome of the present
study is a composite one, the choice of the statistical method is an important part of designing
because various methods provide different power, depending on the situation. In addition to
the standard analysis described above, the following analyses will be performed:
• Count analysis: the number of positive component events (i.e., “count”) across the
composite will be assessed. The groups will be compared on the count using a MannWhitney test, and the odds ratio with the 95% confidence interval will be assessed
with a proportional odds logistic regression model;
• Individual component analysis: the effect of the intervention in each component will
be analyzed using a generalized linear model using a Bonferroni correction for
multiple comparisons. The 99.58% Bonferroni-corrected confidence intervals will be
reported (1 – 0.05/12 = 0.9958);
• Common effect test: A multivariate (i.e., multiple outcomes per subject) generalized
estimating equations (GEE) model will be used to estimate a common effect odds ratio
across the components;
• Average relative effect test: The average relative effect test will be assessed by
averaging the component-specific treatment effect from the distinct effects model, and
testing whether the average is equal to zero. In the GEE distinct effect model a distinct
treatment effect is estimated for each component;
• Heterogeneity of treatment effect: Heterogeneity of treatment effect across
components will be assessed by a treatment-by-component interaction test in the
distinct effects GEE model; and
• Clinical severity weight: Each component will be weighted by a clinical severity
weight determined a posteriori. A multivariate (i.e., multiple outcomes per subject)
GEE model will be used to estimate a common effect odds ratio across the
components while applying the severity weights.

