RATE-AF Trial Protocol                                                          Version 3.0, 25th July 2019


        7.7 Assessment of Compliance

        We will ask participants about compliance with their trial medication at each follow-up visit and this
        will be documented in the CRFs. It may also be clinically evident from the heart rate check,
        performed as part of all visits, whether or not the patient has been compliant with their trial
        mediation.

        In addition, patients that are randomised to the digoxin arm will have a serum digoxin sample taken
        as part of Visit 2 (month 6) and Visit 3 (month 12) follow-ups. The results will indicate whether the
        patient has been compliant with their trial medication.



                    Trial Procedures and Schedule of Assessments

        8.1 Baseline Visit

        The baseline visit will occur as soon as possible after screening and will involve the following
        procedures (see Section 9 for procedure details):
                x    Verify inclusion/exclusion criteria.
                x    Obtain written informed consent from the potential participant.
                x    Randomise the patient via telephone or the secure web-based system as outlined in
                     Section 6
                x    Administer QoL and functional capacity questionnaires.
                x    Review recent blood results (within 6 months of Baseline Visit)
                         o    Assessing renal function to aid in dose assignment and serum potassium level
                              as part of standard clinical care.
                x    Document the use of oral anticoagulation and arrange appropriate prescription for
                     patients not on therapy according to clinical guidelines. If the participant is already
                     receiving vitamin-K antagonists (VKA), recent INR results will be documented.
                x    Record results of physical examinations.
                x    Collect blood samples for baseline blood tests and biomarker analysis.
                x    Complete case report form (CRF)
                x    Perform a 12-lead electrocardiogram.
                x    Supervise a 6-minute walk test, recording distance walked and peak heart rate.
                x    Arrange     the   baseline    echocardiogram;   images      will   be    delivered       to   the
                     echocardiographic core laboratory for blinded reporting.
                x    Discuss the randomised allocation with the participant including schedule for drug
                     therapy and up-titration.




EudraCT No.: 2015-005043-13                                                                       Page 31 of 69
