RATE-AF Trial Protocol                                                      Version 3.0, 25th July 2019




        10.4 SUSARs

        Refer to Table 2 for definitions

        SAEs classed by as both suspected to be related to the trial IMP and unexpected are categorised
        as SUSARs, and are always subject to expedited reporting. An SAE Form should be completed,
        and faxed to the RATE-AF Trial Office within 24 hours of the research staff at site becoming aware
        of the event. The local investigator will provide the causality assessment.

        The Chief Investigator (or nominated individual) will undertake urgent review of all such SAEs and
        may request further information immediately from the clinical team at site. Causality will be
        assessed by a medically qualified doctor who has been delegated the task and then reviewed by
        the local PI. The Chief Investigator will not overrule the causality or seriousness assessment given
        by the local investigator but may add additional comment on these. The Chief Investigator will
        provide the determination of expectedness according to the reference safety information.

        SUSARs will be notified to the MHRA and REC by the RATE-AF Trial Office. SUSARs that are
        fatal or life-threatening will be notified to the MHRA and REC within 7 days after the RATE-AF Trial
        Office has been notified. Other SUSARs will be reported to the REC and MHRA within 15 days
        after the Trial Office has been notified.


        10.5 Development Safety Update Reports

        The RATE-AF Trial Office will provide the MHRA with Development Safety Update Reports
        (DSURs). The reports will be submitted within 60 days of the Developmental International Birth
        Date (DIBD) of the trial each year until the trial is declared ended.


        10.6 Annual Progress Reports

        An annual progress report will be submitted to the REC within 30 days of the anniversary date on
        which the favourable opinion was given, and annually until the trial is declared ended.


        10.7 Pregnancy

        Due to the age of participants that will be randomised into the RATE-AF Trial (≥ 60 years), it is
        highly improbable that female participants will be pregnant at the time of randomisation, or become
        pregnant during the trial. Any pregnancies will be followed up for outcome; any outcome meeting
        the definition of an SAE will be reported to the RATE-AF Trial Office on the relevant CRF.


        10.8 Reporting Urgent Safety Measures

        If any urgent safety measures are taken the Principal Investigator/BCTU/Sponsor shall immediately
        and in any event no later than 3 days from the date the measures are taken, give written notice to


EudraCT No.: 2015-005043-13                                                                   Page 50 of 69
