RATE-AF Trial Protocol                                                        Version 3.0, 25th July 2019


                  Trial Treatment

        7.1 Treatment

        The Investigational Medicinal Products (IMPs) for this trial are Digoxin and Bisoprolol.

        At randomisation, participants will be allocated to open-label treatment with either Digoxin 62.5 –
        250 μg od or Bisoprolol 1.25 – 15 mg od.

        Digoxin
        Digoxin is a cardiac glycoside derived from the foxglove plant. The cardiac effects of digoxin
        therapy are summarised by:
            x   Positive inotropic effects: increased intracellular calcium due to direct inhibition of sodium-
                potassium adenosine triphosphatase (Na/K-ATPase)
            x   Negative chronotropic effects: decreased conduction velocity through the atrioventricular
                node, an increase in the effective refractory period and an increase in vagal activity leading
                to sinus node depression.
        Clinically, digoxin is commonly prescribed in two conditions, heart failure and AF.

        Bisoprolol
        Bisoprolol fumarate is a highly beta-1 selective adrenoreceptor blocker first approved by the U.S.
        Food and Drug Administration in 1992. The cardiac effects of bisoprolol therapy are summarised
        by:
            x   Negative chronotropic effects:     a reduction in resting and exercise heart rate due to
                prevention of norepinephrine and epinephrine from binding to the beta-receptor in cardiac
                conduction tissue.
            x   Negative (mild) inotropic effects: an initial fall in resting and exercise cardiac output with
                little observed change in stroke volume and only a small increase in right atrial pressure or
                pulmonary capillary wedge pressure.


        Clinically, bisoprolol is commonly prescribed in a range of cardiology conditions, including post-
        myocardial infarction, heart failure and in patients with atrial tachyarrhythmia, including AF.


        7.2 Treatment Supply and Storage

        Due to the participant population and the fact that the trial closely aligns with standard care, trial
        medication may be dispensed from routine standard stock by both the pharmacy at the research
        site and community pharmacies local to the participant. Both treatments are used as per normal
        clinical practice therefore there is no additional requirement, above that of local policy, to monitor
        temperature during storage.



EudraCT No.: 2015-005043-13                                                                     Page 27 of 69
