RATE-AF Trial Protocol                                                        Version 3.0, 25th July 2019


        data on important secondary endpoints and all other relevant evidence. A DMC report and charter
        outlining the terms of reference (including information on stopping rules) will be agreed with the
        DMEC.


        12.4 Final analysis

        The final analysis for the RATE-AF trial will occur once the last randomised participant completes
        their 12-month follow-up.



        13        Ethics and Regulatory Requirements

        The trial will be performed in accordance with the recommendations guiding physicians in
        biomedical research involving human participants, adopted by the 18th World Medical Association
        General Assembly, Helsinki, Finland, June 1964, amended at the 48th World Medical Association
        General Assembly, Somerset West, Republic of South Africa, October 1996 (website:
        http://www.wma.net/en/30publications/10policies/b3/index.html).

        The trial will be conducted in accordance with the Research Governance Framework for Health
        and Social Care, the applicable UK Statutory Instruments, (which include the Medicines for Human
        Use Clinical Trials 2004 and subsequent amendments,the latest Data Protection legislation, the
        Human Tissue Act 2008, EU Clinical Trials Directive and amendment Regulations as appropriate)
        and Guidelines for Good Clinical Practice (GCP). This trial will be carried out under a Clinical Trial
        Authorisation in accordance with the Medicines for Human Use Clinical Trials regulations. The
        protocol will be submitted to and approved by the REC prior to circulation.


        Before any participants are enrolled into the trial, the Principal Investigator at each site is required
        to obtain local R&D approval. Sites will not be permitted to enrol participants until written
        confirmation of R&D approval is received by the Principal Investigator.

        It is the responsibility of the Principal Investigator to ensure that all subsequent amendments gain
        the necessary local approval. This does not affect the individual clinicians’ responsibility to take
        immediate action if thought necessary to protect the health and interest of individual participants.

        Within 90 days after the end of the trial, the Chief Investigator/Sponsor will ensure that the REC
        and the MHRA are notified that the trial has finished. If the trial is terminated prematurely, those
        reports will be made within 15 days after the end of the trial. The Chief Investigator will provide the
        Sponsor with a summary report of the clinical trial, which will then be submitted to the MHRA and
        REC within one year after the end of the trial.




EudraCT No.: 2015-005043-13                                                                     Page 57 of 69
