RATE-AF Trial Protocol

Version 3.0, 25th July 2019

variation for repeatability with this assay is <2% with an estimated volume of 250 microlitres
required for each test and measurement range of 5̻35000 pg/mL (0.6̻4130 pmol/L).

9.7.2

Cellular Response to Rate Control

The effect of baseline and follow-up serum on intracellular sodium/calcium, force of contraction and
activation of ERK1/2-dependent cascades will be examined in human induced pluripotent stem
cell-derived cardiomyocytes, using well-established integrated fluorescence/contractility
photometry and western blotting techniques.90, 91 DigiFAB92, will be used to determine whether
changes are dependent on endogenous cardiotonic steroids, which can modulate intracellular ion
concentration in cardiomyocytes93, 94, and potentially contribute to treatment discontinuation (or the
development of toxicity).95 The concentration of serum cardiotonic steroids will be determined
using liquid chromatography–tandem mass spectrometry. Individual change in cardiotonic steroids
and intracellular sodium/calcium will be correlated with the change in heart rate, LVEF, B-type
natriuretic peptide and quality of life. In addition, we will identify patterns in patients withdrawing
from treatment or experiencing adverse reactions.

9.7.3

Stored Blood Samples

Blood samples will be stored at HBRC for future biomarker and genetic analysis, with participants
providing explicit consent for this process. Any future use of these samples will be undertaken with
ethical approval.

9.7.4

Specimen Preparation, Handling, Storage and Shipment

Specimens will be handled according to local standard operating procedures consisting of the time
requirements for processing, required temperatures, aliquots of specimens, where they will be
stored, how they will be labelled, the process for remnant samples/disposal and appropriate
instructions for transportation.

9.8 Economic Evaluation
The RATE-AF trial will allow determination of the most appropriate data collection methods and
ease of acquiring resource use and cost data for a subsequent outcomes trial. Specifically, how
data is obtained from secondary care records, patient-reported resource use and the feasibility of
obtaining primary care records. A preliminary economic evaluation from an NHS perspective will
be performed to estimate costs over the 12-month period. The patient-level cost-analysis will
determine all AF-related costs, with respect to trial interventions and secondary-care resource use
(including adverse events) in the two arms of the trial. We will collect both cost and outcome data
and present them in a cost-consequence analysis. Costing for this trial suggests that simplifying
medication alone could result in a saving of £5900 over each 12-month period. Considering the
high and increasing prevalence of AF, this could result in a substantial NHS cost savings,
particularly if adverse reactions are also reduced. The aim of this objective within the trial is to
EudraCT No.: 2015-005043-13

Page 42 of 69

