RATE-AF Trial Protocol

Version 3.0, 25th July 2019

Trial Procedures
9.1 Procedures Defined as Standard Clinical Care
The following assessments are considered part of the standard clinical care of AF patients receiving
heart rate control therapy and will occur at all trial visits:
x

Blood tests for haemoglobin, serum creatinine, potassium and serum digoxin concentration;
these will be obtained by the research nurse and submitted to the site-specific hospital
laboratory as per local guidelines and SOPs, ensuring that all specimens are accurately
labelled and handled appropriately. In the case of results requiring urgent action, local
policies will be followed which may include the participant visiting their GP, local hospital or
investigator. In all cases, appropriate trial documentation will be completed.

x

A 12-lead ECG; these will be completed by appropriately trained local staff.

9.2 Medical History
Medical history will be obtained by interview and from medical records (physical and electronic) at
the Baseline Visit comprising:
x

Cardiovascular history, including prior ischaemic coronary disease, interventions and
surgery, history of hypertension, heart failure or hyperlipidaemia, stroke or transient
ischaemic attack, pulmonary embolus/deep vein thrombosis and peripheral vascular
disease.

x

AF history, including year of diagnosis, previous cardioversions, previous ablation therapy
and anti-arrhythmic drug history.

x

Pacemaker history, including date and reason for implantation, type of device (singlechamber, dual-chamber, biventricular, implanted defibrillator) and dependency.

x

Non-cardiac history, including diabetes mellitus, airways disease (asthma/COPD), renal
impairment, bleeding history and other major co-morbidities.

x

Social and demographic history, including smoking status (current/ex/never), race
(Caucasian/Indian subcontinent/Asian/African/other) and physical activity using the
International Physical Activity Questionnaire (short form).

9.3 Medication History
Medications history will be assessed according to the categories below and include current dosage.
Except for anticoagulation, antiarrhythmic and rate control therapies, only current medications will
be included.
x

Anticoagulation therapy (vitamin-K antagonists and novel agents), including past use, INR
results and time in therapeutic range.

x

Antiarrhythmic therapy, including past use.

x

Rate control therapy (beta-blockers, digoxin, CCB), including past use.

EudraCT No.: 2015-005043-13

Page 36 of 69

