Version 3.0, 25th July 2019

RATE-AF Trial Protocol

CRF versions may be updated by the RATE-AF Trial Office, as appropriate, throughout the duration
of the trial. Whilst this will not constitute a protocol amendment, new versions of the CRFs must
be implemented by participating sites immediately on receipt.

It will be the responsibility of the Principal Investigator to ensure the accuracy of all data entered in
the CRFs. The RATE-AF Trial Signature & Delegation Log will identify all those personnel with
responsibilities for data collection.
Access to data, including the final trial dataset, will be limited to members of the Research Team.
The investigator(s)/institution(s) will permit trial-related monitoring, audits, REC review, and
regulatory inspection(s), providing direct access to source data/documents. Trial participants are
informed of this during the informed consent discussion and will consent to provide access to their
medical notes.

Table 5: Data Collection Forms

Form Name

Schedule for submission

Randomisation Form

Collected at randomisation

Baseline and Follow-

As soon as possible after each follow-up

Up CRFs

assessment time point

Serious Adverse Event

Faxed within 24hrs of research staff at

Form

site becoming aware of event

11.6 End of Trial
The end of trial will be 30 days after the last data capture. This will allow sufficient time for the
completion of protocol procedures, data collection and data input. The Trials Office will notify the
MHRA and REC that the trial has ended within 90 days of the end of trial. Where the trial has
terminated early, the Trials Office will inform the MHRA and REC within 15 days of the end of trial.
The Trials Office will provide them with a summary of the clinical trial report within 12 months of the
end of trial.
A copy of the end of trial notification as well as the summary report is also sent to the University of
Birmingham Research Governance Team at the time of sending these are sent to the MHRA and
REC.

EudraCT No.: 2015-005043-13

Page 53 of 69

