RATE-AF Trial Protocol

Version 3.0, 25th July 2019

treat principle, with all patients analysed in the arms to which they were allocated irrespective of
compliance with the randomised allocated treatment, and all patients will be included in the
analyses. We will, as a sensitivity analysis, conduct per-protocol analyses, where appropriate.
For all analyses, a p-value <0.05 will be considered statistically significant.
12.3.1 Primary outcome analysis
The primary outcome for this trial is the continuous SF36 physical functioning domain score at 6
months. This outcome will be analysed using an ANCOVA model adjusting for treatment arm,
baseline score and all minimisation variables. Results will be presented as difference in means and
95% confidence intervals.

12.3.2 Feasibility and Secondary outcomes analysis
The feasibility and secondary outcomes for the trial comprise of a combination of both continuous
and categorical (dichotomous) data items.
Categorical endpoints:
For outcomes which are categorical (dichotomous) in nature, the proportion of participants and
percentages will be analysed between arms.
Logistic/Log-binomial regression models will be fitted (where appropriate) to adjust for treatment
arm, baseline scores and all minimisation variables.
Results will be presented as odds ratios/relative risks and 95% confidence intervals.
Continuous endpoints:
Any outcomes that are continuous in nature will be analysed in the same way as the primary
outcome.

12.3.3 Missing data and sensitivity analyses
Primary analysis will concentrate on available data only, with no attempt made to impute missing
data. Where appropriate, sensitivity analyses will be carried out to examine the possible impact of
missing data on the results (full details will be discussed within the Statistical Analysis Plan).

12.3.4

Interim analyses and Stopping rules

Analysis of the data with respect to efficacy and safety will be performed at 12 months and sent to
Data Monitoring Committee (DMC); see Section 16. The DMC will outline and agree the stopping
rules for the trial which will be documented in the DMC charter. It is likely that the Haybittle-Peto
boundary will be used. This states that if an interim analysis shows a probability of less than 0.001
that the treatments are different, then the trial should be stopped early. This will be used alongside
EudraCT No.: 2015-005043-13

Page 56 of 69

