CHU de Poitiers                                                                 High-Wean Study


         results have been recently in the New England Journal of Medicine [33]. The majority
         of the centers participating to our new study on the weaning, and thus, have high
         expertise in the use of NIV and HFNC. An overwhelming majority of the centers
         participating in our new trial on weaning has already participated to the FLORALI
         study and consequently possess considerable experience in the use of both NIV and
         HFNC. Moreover, the vast majority of the centers are ICU within teaching hospitals
         highly skilled to participate in randomized controlled trials.
    2.   We verified capacity for inclusion from our two preliminary results. Based on our
         preliminary studies more than half of the patients meet the inclusion criteria at time
         of extubation in ICU, and therefore, around 8 patients per center and per month
         could be eligible. We expect only one patient included per month and per centre to
         be sure to conduct the study with certainty.
    3.   Data collection was simplified so as to be adapted to the collection of clinical and
         laboratory data usually carried out in cases of extubation and to maximize the
         support of co-investigating centers and physicians. The data collection period is short
         and occurs primarily during the week following extubation Furthermore, inclusion
         criteria are easily identified based on the age and medical history, and the time to
         inclusion is predictable given the decision of extubation is planned by the physician in
         charge of the patient.
    4.   The project benefits from the expertise for scientific support of the European
         network REVA (Research in Artificial Ventilation) directed by Laurent Brochard
         (Toronto, Canada) and Pr Alain Mercat (Angers, France).
    5.   Fisher&Paykel provides logistical support and consumables, and lends the devices
         necessary to carry out HFNC oxygen therapy in all participating centers


13 BENEFITS EXPECTED
At the individual level, the decision of reintubation in the ICU is clearly defined according to
criteria of acute respiratory failure, allowing for avoidance of the deleterious effects of a
delayed reintubation whatever the group of randomization. Indeed, it has been found that a
delayed reintubation could worsen the patient's condition and increase mortality [13].
Moreover, the individual risk of reintubation may be reduced through this strategy of
oxygenation, which could be beneficial in the 2 groups using HFNC as the standard therapy
of oxygenation.
Nowadays, there is no recommendation concerning the use of NIV or HFNC in the post-
extubation period. Although several studies have reported beneficial effects of NIV in
hypercapnic patients, prophylactic NIV is underused after extubation. A recent survey in
France and Belgium reported that only 10% of the patients extubated in a ICU received NIV
in the post-extubation period [53]. Clinical practice differs not only between ICUs but also
between countries. Our study would be the largest multicenter trial on the use of NIV or
HFNC in the post-extubation period, and could consequently change clinical practice and
contribute to the establishment of recommendations on extubation. If the results were
positive in terms of reintubation or mortality, this optimal strategy might possibly be applied
as a standard treatment in post-extubation for all patients at high risk of reintubation. If
effective, this strategy could help to reduce mortality in a population of severely ill patients.
From an economic standpoint, a reduced intubation rate would be likely to diminish the
subsequent duration of mechanical ventilation, ICU stay and the overall costs of prolonged
hospitalization.
                         th
Version n° 4 of the 17        of october 2017                                       Page 40 sur 49
