CHU de Poitiers                                                             High-Wean Study


       increase in the work of breathing and/or respiratory fatigue including activation of
       accessory respiratory muscles, (3) Respiratory acidosis defined as pH < 7.35 units and
       PaCO2 > 45 mm Hg, (4) Need for FiO2 ≥ 80% to maintain SpO2 ≥ 92% or PaO2/FiO2 ≤
       100 mmHg.
    2. Hemodynamic failure defined as SAP < 90 mm Hg or MAP < 65 mm Hg with the need
       for vasopressors
    3. Neurological failure: altered consciousness (Glasgow <12) or agitation.
    4. Cardiac or respiratory arrest

In case of criteria for reintubation, the patient should be immediately intubated. However,
according to the clinical practice in each center, the patients can be treated by therapeutic
NIV in case of respiratory distress. In case of persistence of ARF criteria 2 hours after NIV
initiation, the patient should be immediately intubated and NIV should not be continued
beyond this delay of 2h.


5.5 PATIENT FOLLOW-UP AND DATA COLLECTION
At time of inclusion/extubation:
    x Age, gender, height, weight.
    x Severity score indicated by the SAPS II and the SOFA score
    x Underlying chronic cardiac or respiratory disease
    x Date and reason for admission
    x Date and reason for intubation
    x Duration of intubation prior to extubation
    x Classification according to the weaning difficulty: “simple weaning” refers to patients
       who succeed the first weaning test and are extubated without difficulty, “difficult
       weaning” to patients who fail the first weaning test and require up to 3 tests or 7
       days to achieve successful weaning, and “prolonged weaning” to patients who
       require more than 7 days of weaning after the first test.
    x Type of weaning trial performed before extubation: T-tube or pressure-support trial
    x Qualitative assessment of cough strength and amount of secretions
    x Steroids at before extubation
    x Vital parameters at the end of the weaning trial at the time of inclu: systolic and
       diastolic arterial pressure, heart rate, respiratory rate and SpO2.
    x Before and at the end of the weaning trial: Blood Gas and ventilatory parameters.

Post-Extubation H1:
   x Vital parameters: systolic and diastolic arterial pressure, heart rate, respiratory rate
       and SpO2.
   x Ventilatory settings and parameters: Gas flow and FiO2 using HFNC, pressure-
       support, PEEP, FiO2 and expiratory tidal volume with NIV.
   x Blood gas with HFNC in the control group and with NIV in the interventional group.
   x Criteria for acute respiratory failure and for reintubation
   x Need for reintubation




                         th
Version n° 4 of the 17        of october 2017                                   Page 31 sur 49
