CHU de Poitiers                                                             High-Wean Study


2.8    Originality and Innovative Aspects of our study
      x HFNC had never previously been used as a reference therapy. When administered to
        a control group, this treatment has seemed highly innovative and in agreement with
        the recent literature.
      x The study addresses a large population of patients considered to be at high-risk for
        reintubation. Patients intubated more than 24h older than 65y or with an underlying
        chronic cardiac or respiratory disease are easy to identify in clinical practice and,
        based on our preliminary results, they represent around half of the patients who are
        extubated in the ICU. By contrast, hypercapnic patients represent only 15% of the
        patients in a general ICU.
      x The ventilatory strategy used in the interventional group associating NIV and HFNC
        has never been assessed.
      x This is the largest study assessing the use of prophylactic NIV in the post-extubation
        period


2.9 Ethical Considerations: equipoise of 2 treatment groups
The clinician must offer at any time the best possible treatment for the patient. If a clinician
is convinced of the superiority of one treatment over another, then it has no reason to
propose a randomized study comparing these two treatments. But if the efficacy of the two
treatments appear equivalent, a priori, according to his knowledge of findings from the
literature, the randomization is an acceptable option (individual perspective) and desirable
for all patients (collective view). The opinions concerning the use of prophylactic NIV are
very different from a unit to another and from a country to another. NIV is more widely used
in Europe than in North America and the majority of the studies on prophylactic NIV after
extubation have been performed in Europe. Clinical practice is also heterogeneous in France
and in recent survey around 20% of the patients at high-risk received NIV in the post-
extubation period [53].


2.10 References
1. Thille AW, Richard J-CM, Brochard L (2013) The decision to extubate in the intensive care
unit. American journal of respiratory and critical care medicine 187:1294-1302
2. Thille AW, Cortés-Puch I, Esteban A (2013) Weaning from the ventilator and extubation in
ICU. Current opinion in critical care 19:57-64
3. Frat JP, Brugiere B, Ragot S, Chatellier D, Veinstein A, Goudet V, Coudroy R, Petitpas F,
Robert R, Thille AW, Girault C (2015) Sequential application of oxygen therapy via high-flow
nasal cannula and noninvasive ventilation in acute respiratory failure: an observational pilot
study. Respir Care 60:170-178
4. Sztrymf B, Messika J, Bertrand F, Hurel D, Leon R, Dreyfuss D, Ricard JD (2011) Beneficial
effects of humidified high flow nasal oxygen in critical care patients: a prospective pilot
study. Intensive Care Med 37:1780-1786
5. Maggiore SM, Idone FA, Vaschetto R, Festa R, Cataldo A, Antonicelli F, Montini L, De
Gaetano A, Navalesi P, Antonelli M (2014) Nasal high-flow versus Venturi mask oxygen
therapy after extubation. Effects on oxygenation, comfort, and clinical outcome. Am J Respir
Crit Care Med 190:282-288



                         th
Version n° 4 of the 17        of october 2017                                    Page 20 sur 48
