CHU de Poitiers                                                            High-Wean Study


In order to 1) identify a subset of patients at high-risk for reintubation and 2) assess the
impact of NIV on outcome, we performed two observational prospective studies including
more than 800 intubated patients [10, 23]. Our first study aimed to identify the patients
most at-risk for reintubation [10]. Of 168 planned extubations (26 episodes of extubation
failure) the risk of reintubation was markedly higher in patients aged of more than 65 years
old (29%) and in those with any underlying cardiac or respiratory disease (23%). The rate of
reintubation even reached 34% in patients having these 2 risk factors while it was only 9% in
patients without any of these 2 risk factors. The main interest of this study is to easily
identify a population of patients at high-risk for reintubation with a rate ranging from 20 to
30%. In our second study all patients intubated more than 24h and considered at high-risk
for reintubation based on our previous study, i.e. those with an age > 65y or with underlying
chronic cardiac or respiratory disease, systematically received prophylactic NIV at least 8h a
day until recovery of reintubation [23]. Our results are encouraging since the reintubation
rate within the 7 days following planned extubation was significantly reduced between the 2
cohorts from 28% to 15%, p=0.03 [11].


2.6 Which standard treatment should we use for the control group?
The usual treatment after planned extubation includes standard oxygen alone through a
facemask or nasal cannula. However, it has recently been found that the use of HFNC after
planned extubation decreased the rate of reintubation as compared to standard oxygen [5,
6]. In another study not published yet, the rate of reintubation was similar in high-risk
patients treated with HFNC alone than with prophylactic NIV interspaced by standard
oxygen. Concerning the use of prophylactic NIV few recommendations are available. Recent
Canadian guidelines recommended the use of NIV prophylactic in at-risk patients with
moderate evidence (grade 2A). In clinical practice, a recent survey performed in France
reported that only 11% of the patients extubated in the ICU received NIV during the post-
extubation period [6]. Given around half of the patients could be considered at high-risk for
extubation failure according to our criteria; it means that around 20 to 25% of at-risk
patients are treated with prophylacticNIV after planned extubation in France.
Given the recent studies we strongly believe, although the data are still limited, that HFNC
may be considered as the reference therapy during the post-extubation period.


2.7 Which treatment should we use for the interventional group
The combination of the two techniques, i.e. prophylactic NIV interspaced by HFNC could
seem the best strategy to improve blood gases, to reduce work of breathing and to avoid
subsequent respiratory failure. The majority of the studies that assessed prophylactic NIV
after extubation applied NIV during the first 24 after planned extubation. In our recent
study, NIV was prolonged beyond the first 24h in more than 20% of the cases [11, 23] and
NIV could be prolonged according to patient’s respiratory status in the absence of criteria for
reintubation.
Therefore, whatever the group of randomization, all patients will receive HFNC alone or NIV
interspaced with HFNC during at least 48h whereas this strategy may be continued beyond
the first 48h in the absence of complete recovery.




                         th
Version n° 4 of the 17        of october 2017                                   Page 19 sur 48
