CHU de Poitiers                                                                    High-Wean Study




8 ETHICAL CONSIDERATIONS AND REGULATORY STANDARDS
8.1 ETHICAL PRINCIPLES, LAWS AND REGULATION
This study will be conducted by the supervisors and the sponsor,
• In accordance with Good Clinical Practice (GCP).
• In accordance to the ethical principles that have their origin in the Declaration of Helsinki
    and with respect to the European clinical practice (Appendix n°3),
• In compliance with all international guidelines and national laws and regulation in
    France.

The clinical trial will be recorded in the public registry website clinicaltrials.gov.


8.2 INSTITUTIONAL REVIEW BOARD / INDEPENDENT ETHICS COMMITTEE
The protocol, the informed consent document must be submitted to the Institutional review
board/ Independent ethics Committee IRB/IEC (Comité de Protection des Personnes Ouest
III.) for review, and will receive IRB/IEC approval / favorable opinion before initiation of the
study.

During the clinical trial, any amendments to the protocol must also be approved by IRB/IEC
(Comité de Protection des Personnes Ouest III).
The IRB/IEC should also be informed of any event likely to affect the safety of patients or the
continued conduct of the clinical trial, in particular any change in safety.
A progress report is sent to the IRB /IEC at least annually and a summary of the clinical trial’s
outcome at the end of the study.


8.3 PATIENT INFORMATION AND NON-OPPOSITION
Investigators must ensure that subjects (or, in those situations where consent cannot be
given by subjects, the legally acceptable representative) are clearly and fully informed about
the purpose, potential risks, and other critical issues regarding the study.
Freely given non-opposition must be obtained from every subject (or their legal
representantative) before clinical study participation.
The investigator must provide the subject a copy of the information form and non-
opposition about the study in the language in which the subject is more proficient. The
patient will be informed of his right to refuse to participate, and to retract at any time.




                         th
Version n° 4 of the 17        of october 2017                                            Page 38 sur 49
