CHU de Poitiers                                                               High-Wean Study


Regarding mortality criteria (in ICU, in-hospital, at day 28 and at day 90, Kaplan–Meier
curves will be plotted to assess the time from enrollment to death and will be compared
between the 2 treatment groups by means of the log-rank test. In absence of interaction
between variables, the variables associated with mortality with a p value <0.20 in univariate
Cox models will be considered in a maximal model. A Cox proportional-hazard regression
analysis will be performed using a backward manual procedure. The final model will include
variables significantly associated with mortality with a P value of less than 0.05 and will be
expressed using adjusted relative risk and hazard ratio with 95% confident interval.


6.4 PREDERTMINED SUBGROUP ANALYSIS
Randomization will be stratified according to the PaCO 2 value before extubation in order to
have the same proportion of hypercapnic patients defined as a PaCO2 > 45 mm Hg at the end
of the spontaneous breathing trial. Therefore, a subgroup analysis will be performed for
main and secondary criteria of evaluation in hypercapnic patients with PaCO 2 > 45 mm Hg
before extubation and non hypercapnic patients.
Moreover, subgroup analysis will be performed for main and secondary criteria of evaluation
in patients with underlying cardiac or respiratory disease and according to the weaning test
performed before extubation (T-piece versus minimal pressure-support).


6.5 EXPECTED NUMBER OF PATIENTS TO BE INCLUDED IN THE STUDY: STATISTICAL
JUSTIFICATION
This study is based on the recent literature using HFNC in the postextubation period and on
our 2 preliminary studies that have allowed us to accurately assess the number of subjects
to include [10, 23]. In keeping with our results, we determined that enrollment of 590
patients would provide a power of 80% to show an absolute difference of 8% in the rate of
reintubation between the control group using HFNC alone (rate of reintubation estimated to
18%) as compared with the interventional group using HFNC and NIV (rate of reintubation
estimated to 10%) at a two-sided alpha level of 0.05.
So as to be certain to cover the secondary exclusions, we would like to increase the number
of patients included by 10%, ie 650 patients.


6.6    EXPECTED RATE OF REINTUBATION IN THE 2 GROUPS
The expected rates of reintubation in the two groups are based on the literature and on our
2 preliminary studies.

Interventional group:
In our preliminary study the reintubation rate in patients treated with NIV and standard
oxygen was 15% within the 7 days following extubation. This rate was only 10% within the
48 hours following extubation which is strictly similar to the rates reported in the literature
[7-9]. Although no study to date has evaluated this ventilatory strategy combining NIV and
HFNC in the interventional group, we can expect a decreased reintubation rate as compared
to NIV and standard oxygen from 15% to 10% within the 7 days following extubation.

Control group:

                         th
Version n° 4 of the 17        of october 2017                                     Page 34 sur 49
