CHU de Poitiers                                                                 High-Wean Study


       7.2.3 Source document requirement
According to the ICH guidelines for the Good Clinical Practice, the monitoring team must
check the e-CRF entries against source documents. The personnel bound by professional
secret, must maintain the confidentiality of all personal identity or personal medical
information (according to the confidentiality and personal data protection rules).

       7.2.4 Use and completion of Case Report Form (CRFs) and additional request
Electronic CRF will be used for this study. It is the responsibility of the supervisor to maintain
adequate and accurate e-CRF and to record all observations and other data pertinent in
source documents. All e-CRFs should be completed in their entirety in a legible manner to
ensure accurate interpretation of data.
The computerized handling of the data by the sponsor when available in the e-CRF may
generate additional requests (DRF) to which the investigator is obliged to respond by
confirming or modifying the data questioned. The requests with their responses will be
managed through the e-CRF.


7.3 CNIL
Data collected during the study will be stored in a computer file within the law
“informatique et libertés” du 6 janvier 1978 modifiée en 2004.
A notice concerning the implementation of data processing necessary for the realization of
the study will be asked to “Comité Consultatif sur le traitement de l’information en matière
de recherche dans le domaine de la santé (CCTIRS)”, and will be followed by an application to
the “Commission Nationale Informatique et Liberté (CNIL)” for the processing of personal
data.


7.4 MANAGEMENT OF INTERCURRENT EVENTS DURING THE STUDY
Intercurrent events occur during the study and are part of the assessment criteria will be
notified in the eCRF and analyzed at end of study.


7.5 ARCHIVE
Sponsor documents will be completed CHU of Poitiers on the archive site for a period of 15
years and any movement must be declared to the manager.
Investigators documents will be archived in each center for a period of 15 years and the
place will be indicated to the sponsor.




                         th
Version n° 4 of the 17        of october 2017                                        Page 37 sur 49
