CHU de Poitiers                                                                High-Wean Study


5 STUDY DESIGN
This is a prospective multicenter randomized controlled open-label trial comparing 2
strategies of oxygenation during the post-extubation period in patients at high risk of
extubation failure in an ICU. Patients will randomly be assigned to one of the two groups,
with a 1:1 ratio.


5.1 INCLUSION
Patients may be included after verification of the eligibility criteria (inclusion criteria and
non-inclusion criteria are detailed above) and obtained non-opposition to participation from
the patients or their proxy. In all cases, the patient will be informed as soon as possible by
the investigator of his participation in the study and his consent to continue to participate in
the study will be requested. A duplicate copy will be given to the patient. A copy addressed
to the project manager will be placed in a sealed envelope. The investigator will indicate in
the patient's medical records his or her participation in the research project and the means
through which informed consent and relevant information were obtained.


5.2 RANDOMIZATION
The randomization will be centrally organized and stratified on PaCO2 and center. As NIV
may be more effective in hypercapnic patients (PaCO2 > 45 mm Hg) stratification on PaCO2
will permit to well-balanced the 2 treatments among the 2 subgroups of hypercapnic and
non hypercapnic patients. PaCO2 will be measure at the end of the weaning trial. If not
possible, PaCO2 measured during the last blood gas under mechanical ventilation will be
used.
Randomization will be carried out through an Internet site dedicated to clinical trials and
accessible to investigators through user identification and a personal password. The
randomization will become effective following verification of the criteria of inclusion and
exclusion. Patients included will be randomized at time of decision of planned extubation
and assigned to one of the 2 following groups: 1) The patients assigned to control group will
receive continuously HFNC alone; 2) The patients assigned to interventional group will
receive NIV during at least 12 hours a day with HFNC between NIV sessions. In the 2 groups,
patients will be treated for at least 48h after planned extubation.


5.3 GROUPS OF TREATMENT
Given the characteristics of the two methods under evaluation, a double blind trial is not
possible.

Control group: HFNC alone
Immediately after planned extubation the patients assigned to the control group will be
continuously treated by HFNC for at least 48h with a flow of 50 L/min and FiO2 adjusted to
obtain adequate oxygenation (SpO2 ≥ 92%).
In the absence of ARF symptoms 48h after planned extubation, treatment can be stopped
and switched to standard oxygen therapy, after a weaning test using HFNC with a flow of
30L/min and FiO2 of 30%.
In case of occurrence or persistence of ARF symptoms at H48, HFNC will be continued or re-
initiated by periods of 24h until disparition of symptoms.
                         th
Version n° 4 of the 17        of october 2017                                      Page 29 sur 49
