CHU de Poitiers                                                                 High-Wean Study


7 DATA MANAGEMENT, STUDY MONITORING
7.1 DEFINITION OF SOURCE DATA
Source data is all information, original records of clinical findings, observations, or other
activities in clinical trial necessary for the reconstruction and evaluation of the study. Source
data are contained in source documents.
All protocol-required information collected during the study must be recorded by the
investigator or other study personnel in the source documentation for the study. The source
documentation will be used to enter the protocol required information into the e-CRF. No
data should therefore be directly entered into the e-CRF.


7.2    STUDY MONITORING
         7.2.1 Responsibilities of the supervisor
The supervisors and delegate supervisors, staff undertakes to perform the clinical trial in
accordance with this clinical protocol, ICH guidelines for GCP and the applicable regulatory
requirements.
The supervisors are required to ensure compliance with all procedures required with the
clinical trial protocol and with all study procedures provided by he sponsor including security
rules.
The supervisors agree to provide reliable data and all information request by the study
protocol (with the help of the e-CRF, discrepancy resolution form (DRF) or other appropriate
instrument) in an accurate and legible manner according to the instructions provided and to
ensure direct access to source documents by sponsor representatives.
The supervisors may appoint such other individuals as he/she may deem appropriate as sub
supervisors to assist in the conduct of the study. All supervisors shall be appointed and listed
in a timely manner. All supervisors will be supervised by and work under the responsibility of
the supervisors.
For the purpose of ensuing compliance with the clinical trial protocol, good clinical practice
and applicable regulatory requirements, the supervisor should permit auditing by or on the
behalf of the sponsor and inspection by regulatory authorities
The investigator agrees to allow the auditors/inspectors to have direct access to the study
records for review, being understood that these personnel is bound by professional secrecy,
and as such will not disclose any personal identity or personal medical information.

        7.2.2 Responsibilities of the sponsor
The sponsor of this study is responsible of the health authorities for taking all reasonable
steps to ensure the proper conduct of the study as regards ethics, trial protocol compliance,
integrity and invalidity of the data recorded on the e-CRF. The main duty of the monitoring
team is to help the supervisors and the sponsor maintain a high level of ethical, scientific
technical and regulatory quality in all aspects of the clinical trial.
At regular intervals during the study, the site will be contacted, through monitoring visits
and Newsletters, by a representative of the monitoring team to review study progress,
supervisor’s compliance with study protocol requirements and any emergent problems.
These monitoring visits will include review of the following aspects: patient’s information
and non-opposition, patient’s recruitment and follow-up and quality of data.




                         th
Version n° 4 of the 17        of october 2017                                       Page 36 sur 49
