CHU de Poitiers                                                               High-Wean Study



6 STATISTICS
All analyses will be performed by a methodologist-biostatistician (Dr Stéphanie Ragot) using
the SAS statistical package version 9.2 (SAS Institute Cary, NC)
The analysis will be performed on an intention-to-treat basis after validation by a blind
review committee of the inclusion and exclusion criteria for each patient.


6.1 DESCRIPTIVE ANALYSIS
The continuous variables will be summarized with the classic parameters of descriptive
analysis (median, interquartile ranges and extreme values or mean and standard deviation),
while indicating the number of missing data. The category variables will be presented in the
form of absolute frequency and percentage in each modality.
Eligibility criteria will be verified on the basis of the data recorded in the case reports.
Wrongly included subjects as those lost to follow-up subjects will be described. Deviations
from the protocol will be described and analyzed on a case-by-case basis.



6.2 ANALYSIS PERTAINING TO THE MAIN CRITERION OF EVALUATION
The percentages of patients having needed reintubation within the 7 days following planned
extubation will be compared between the 2 groups by means of the Chi2 test.
The different parameters that would be potentially predictive of reintubation will be
considered by means of the Student's t-Test (or the Mann-Whitney U test, if necessary) for
continuous quantitative variables and by means of the Chi 2 test (or Fisher's exact test) for
qualitative variables and by means of univariate logistic regressions. Results will be
expressed as odds ratio and 95% confidence interval.
The analysis will subsequently be completed by multivariate logistic regression after testing
for interactions. The maximal model will include all the variables associated with the
dependent variable (p<0.20) as well as the relevant variables according to the data collected
in the literature (forced variables). The model will be simplified according to a step-by-step
procedure of elimination in descending order; only the variables associated with the
dependent variable (threshold limit value: 5%) and the forced variables will be conserved.
Kaplan–Meier curves will be plotted to assess the time from enrollment to reintubation and
will be compared by means of the log-rank test. The variables associated with reintubation
with a p value <0.20 will be assessed by means of a Cox proportional-hazard regression
analysis with the use of a backward-selection procedure. The final model will include
variables significantly associated with intubation with a P value of less than 0.05 and will be
expressed using adjusted relative risk and hazard ratio with 95% confident interval.


6.3 ANALYSIS PERTAINING TO THE SECONDARY CRITERIA OF EVALUATION
Reintubation rates at the various pre defined times, acute respiratory failure rates will be
compared between the 2 groups according to the same statistical methodology than the
main outcome.
Number of ventilator-free days and lengths of stay be compared between the two treatment
groups by means of the Student's t-Test (or the Mann-Whitney U test, if necessary) .

                         th
Version n° 4 of the 17        of october 2017                                     Page 33 sur 49
