CHU de Poitiers                                                             High-Wean Study


patients who are considered to be at high risk of respiratory failure, but only in centres that
have expertise in NPPV (grade 2B) and 2) NIV not be used after planned extubation in
patients who are considered to be at low risk of respiratory failure (2C). This means that its
interest is not established with certainty and that this strategy could probably be discussed
for some patients at high-risk of reintubation but that it cannot be routinely recommended
in clinical practice.


2.2 USE OF HFNC AFTER PLANNED EXTUBATION IN THE ICU
High-flow oxygen therapy through nasal cannula (HFNC) is a recent technique that delivers
heated and humidified oxygen at high flow rates [26]. Several physiological studies have
showed that HFNC was better tolerated than standard oxygen delivered through a mask [4,
27, 28]. High-flow rates of fresh gas enable to increase the fraction of inspired oxygen (FiO 2)
[29], to generate low levels of positive end-expiratory pressure [30], and to decrease
physiological dead space by flushing expired carbon dioxide in the upper airways [31]. The
result is a decrease in work of breathing [32] and dyspnea [28] while the heating and
humidification of inspired gases might prevent thick secretions and atelectasis. HFNC could
offer an alternative to standard oxygen in hypoxemic patients and could even avoid
intubation in patients with acute respiratory failure or reintubation during the post-
extubation period. In a multicentre randomized controlled trial we recently found that
mortality in patients with acute respiratory failure treated with HFNC alone was significantly
lower than those treated with standard oxygen or NIV [33]. During the post-extubation
period a recent study showed a significant reduction in the reintubation rate for hypoxemic
patients treated with HFNC as compared to standard oxygen [5]. The results of 2 large-scale
randomised controlled trials carried out in Spain suggest that (1) in low-risk patients HFNC
could reduce the reintubation rate compared to standard oxygen [6], and that (2) in high-risk
patients HFNC could be equivalent to non-invasive ventilation (NIV) (This last suty is not
published yet). Given the findings reported in these recent studies, HFNC may be considered
as the reference therapy during the post-extubation period.




                         th
Version n° 4 of the 17        of october 2017                                    Page 16 sur 48
