CHU de Poitiers                                                                 High-Wean Study


4 CRITERIA FOR INCLUSION AND RECRUITMENT OF THE PATIENTS
4.1 INCLUSION CRITERIA
Patient who meet the following criteria will be eligible for inclusion:
    1. Duration of mechanical ventilation prior to extubation > 24h
    2. Planned extubation after weaning trial success.
    3. Patients at high risk of reintubation having at least one of the following criteria [10] :
       patients older than 65 years, or those having any underlying chronic cardiac or lung
       disease.

         Underlying chronic cardiac diseases include
               (1) Left ventricular dysfunction whatever the cause defined by left ventricular
               ejection fraction ≤ 45%,
               (2) Documented ischemic cardiopathy
               (3) Chronic auricular fibrillation
               (4) history of cardiogenic pulmonary edema

         Chronic lung diseases include
                (1) the existence of any underlying chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
                (COPD),
                (2) obesity-hypoventilation syndrome (OHS) or
                (3) restrictive pulmonary disease.
         The underlying lung disease will be either documented or highly suspected by the
         physician in a patient intubated for acute hypercapnic respiratory failure (PaCO2 > 45
         mm Hg) and having:
             1) a history of smoking with intrinsic positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP)
             under mechanical ventilation and/or emphysema on chest X-ray or scanner
             suggesting underlying COPD,
             2) obesity (BMI > 30 kg/m2) with alveolar hypoventilation (PaCO2> 45 mm Hg)
             suggesting OHS,
             or 3) rib cage deformation suggesting restrictive pulmonary disease.


4.2     NON INCLUSION CRITERIA
      1. Patients admitted for traumatic brain injury
      2. Peripheral neuromuscular disease as reason for intubation (Underlying myopathy or
          myasthenia gravis)
      3. Usual long-term treatment with NIV for chronic lung disease
      4. Usual long-term treatment with CPAP for obstructive apneas syndrome
      5. Contraindication to NIV
      6. Unplanned extubation (accidental or self extubation). Intubated patients following an
          unplanned extubation may be included in the case of a next scheduled extubation.
      7. Do-not-reintubate order at time of extubation
      8. No Health insurance coverage
      9. People under protection: Pregnant or breastfeeding women, minor patients, subjects
          with guardianship. Inhability to freely provide consent through judiciary or
          administrative condition.
      10. Opposition to participation

                         th
Version n° 4 of the 17        of october 2017                                       Page 26 sur 49
