CHU de Poitiers                                                            High-Wean Study


comorbidities, chronic cardiac failure, weak cough, stridor, or failure of more than one
spontaneous breathing trial before extubation) were included [7]. Prophylactic NIV, applied
at least 8 hours per day during the first 48h following extubation, enabled to significantly
reduce the rate of reintubation from 24% to 8% (p=0.027). In another study [8], 162 patients
considered at high-risk for reintubation according to other criteria (age >65 years, high
severity score at the beginning of the weaning, or intubation for cardiac failure) were
included. Prophylactic NIV was applied during the first 24h following extubation and enabled
to reduce the risk of post-extubation respiratory failure and to decrease in-ICU mortality
although the reintubation rate was surprisingly not significantly decreased. A subgroup
analysis suggested that NIV was chiefly beneficial in hypercapnic patients with chronic
respiratory disorders [8]. Therefore, the same group conducted a second trial including 106
patients with hypercapnia (PaCO2> 45 mm Hg) at the end of the spontaneous breathing trial
before extubation [9]. The results confirmed the previous study, and the use of prophylactic
NIV avoided post-extubation respiratory failure and reduced day-90 mortality [9]. Once
again, the rate of reintubation was not significantly different with prophylactic NIV or
standard oxygen, and the rates of mortality in ICU or in hospital were also similar. Two
others studies assessed the impact of prophylactic NIV on outcome. The largest multicenter
trial nowadays included 400 patients intubated more than 48h in the ICU [21]. In this study
no difference was found neither for the reintubation rate nor for the mortality rate.
However, the patients included were not really at high-risk for reintubation with an overall
reintubation rate relatively low around 10% [21]. Another study used prophylactic NIV in
patients intubated at least 3 days for acute respiratory failure [22]. The authors found
positive results with a decrease in reintubation rate in the group receiving NIV (5% vs. 39%,
p=0.016). However, only 38 patients were included and the rate of reintubation reported in
this monocentric study was abnormally high in the control group receiving standard oxygen
[22].


How to interpret these results and which recommendations can be proposed?
These findings suggest that prophylactic NIV could be effective to prevent post-extubation
respiratory failure in hypercapnic patients or those at high-risk for reintubation but probably
useless in patients at low-risk for reintubation. However, all questions are not resolved by
these studies. First, the first three positive studies were conducted in specialized pulmonary
units [7-9]. Therefore, the majority of the patients had underlying chronic pulmonary disease
and more than 30% of them were hypercapnic at time of extubation [7, 8]. In our recent
prospective cohort study assessing risk factors for reintubation in a general ICU only 15% of
the patients were hypercapnic at time of extubation, and hypercapnia was not a variable
independently associated with reintubation [23]. Second, in the study by Ferrer et al.
including hypercapnic patients [9], the mortality at day 90 was significantly lower in patients
receiving prophylactic NIV but neither in-ICU mortality nor in-hospital mortality were
different and it seems difficult to attribute so long long-term benefit to the use of NIV
immediately after extubation. The rate of reintubation was not significantly different while it
is well shown that extubation failure is the major event independently associated [24].
Finally, most of the factors used as inclusion criteria to start prophylactic NIV are not
variables clearly associated with reintubation (comorbidities, high severity score,
hypercapnia, failure of a weaning trial…) and, therefore, research efforts must focus in
better identifying high-risk patients who may benefit from NIV [25]. In view with this
literature, Canadian guidelines suggested that 1) NIV be used after planned extubation in

                         th
Version n° 4 of the 17        of october 2017                                   Page 15 sur 48
