CHU de Poitiers                                                               High-Wean Study



9 INSURANCE
Because the research is qualified such as routine care after CPP autorization, the insurance
will be that of the institution responsible of care.



10 CONFIDENTIALITY AND PROPERTY RIGHTS
All information disclosed or provided by the sponsor, or produced during the clinical trial
including but not limited to the clinical trial protocol, the e-CRFs, and the results obtained
during the course of the clinical trial is confidential prior to the publication results. The
investigator and any person under his authority agree to undertake to keep confidential and
not to disclose the information to a third party without the prior written approval of the
sponsor.
The sub-investigators shall be bound to the same obligation as the investigator

All information, documents provided by the sponsor or its designee are and remain the sole
property of the sponsor.
Results of the clinical trial are also the property of the sponsor, who may use or exploit them
without any limitation.


11 PUBLICATION AND COMMUNICATION
11.1 End of study report
The end of study report will be established by the biostastitician of the study, including row
data and results of statistical analysis.
This report should be approved and signed by the executive committee and principal
supervisors.
A summary of the results of the study will performed and provided on request of the
participating patients.


11.2 Publication
Communications, reports and publication of the results of the study will be under the
responsibility of the principal investigator-coordinator of the study and the executive
committee.
Co-authors of report and publication will include the coordinator and principal co-
investigators, the investigators according to their participation to the study, the
biostatistician and other associated researchers. Rules of publication will follow the
international recommendation according to (N Engl J Med, 1997; 336: 309-315).

12 STUDY FEASIBILITY
The feasibility of this project is based on the 5 following points:
   1. The high skill of our centre to conduct this randomized controlled trial: Our center is
       in an excellent position to coordinate such a trial after having been the main
       investigator of the FLORALI study (300 patients included) [33], which aimed to
       compare standard oxygen, HFNC and NIV in patients with de novo acute respiratory
       failure. The FLORALI study was performed in a shorter than expected time and the
                         th
Version n° 4 of the 17        of october 2017                                     Page 39 sur 49
