CALGB 70807

What other choices do I have if I do not take part in this study?
You may choose not to take part in this study. If you do not take part in the study, you should discuss
with your doctor the appropriate treatment or surveillance plan for your prostate cancer. Those who
choose not to participate in this study will continue under the care of their doctors for prostate cancer.
You may also choose to take part in another research study.
Talk to your doctor about your choices before you decide if you will take part in this study.

Will my medical information be kept private?
We will do our best to make sure that the personal information in your medical record will be kept
private. However, we cannot guarantee total privacy. Your personal information may be given out if
required by law. If information from this study is published or presented at scientific meetings, your
name and other personal information will not be used.
In order for the diet counselors at the University of California at San Diego to contact you, it will be
necessary for you to fill out a contact information form that will include your name, address,
telephone number, and other personal information. Your contact information will be kept only for the
duration of the study.
Organizations that may look at and/or copy your medical record for research, quality assurance, and
data analysis include:
•
•
•

Alliance for Clinical Trials in Oncology (Alliance)
National Cancer Institute
The Cancer Trials Support Unit (CTSU), a service sponsored by the National Cancer Institute
(NCI) to provide greater access to cancer trials, may also view your records if you are
participating in this trial through one of their institutions.

The Alliance has received a Certificate of Confidentiality from the federal government, which will
help us to protect your privacy. The Certificate protects against the involuntary release of information
about you collected during the course of the study. The researchers involved in this project may not
be forced to identify you in any legal proceedings (criminal, civil, administrative, or legislative) at
the federal, state or local level. However, some information may be required by the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, or for purposes of
program review or audit. Also, you may choose to voluntarily disclose the protected information
under certain circumstances. For example, if you or your guardian requests the release of information
about you in writing (through, for example, a written request to release medical records to an
insurance company), the Certificate does not protect against that voluntary disclosure.

What are the costs of taking part in this study?
You and/or your health plan/insurance company will be responsible for the charges related to your
cancer care. All study measurements and materials directly related to the research will be provided to
you free of charge.
You will be responsible for the cost of the food specified by the study.
You will not be paid for taking part in this study.
Version Date 09/26/18

Update #10
52

