CALGB 70807

Branch, CTEP, DCTD, NCI. These forms are available on the CTSU Web site (enter
FUHGHQWLDOVDWKWWSVZZZFWVXRUJWKHQFOLFNRQWKH5HJLVWHUWDE) or by calling the PMB
at 240-276-6575 Monday through Friday between 8:30 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. Eastern time.
Each investigator or group of investigators at a clinical site must obtain IRB approval for
this protocol and submit IRB approval and supporting documentation to the CTSU
Regulatory Office before they can enroll patients. Study centers can check the status of
their registration packets by querying the Regulatory Support System (RSS) site
registration status page of the CTSU member web site by entering credentials at
https://www.ctsu.org.
Requirements for CALGB 70807 site registration:

5.2

•

CTSU IRB Certification

•

CTSU IRB/Regulatory Approval Transmittal Sheet

Patient Pre-registration
Pre-registration must occur prior to providing patients with access to the online patient
data entry site, login information or training. Pre-registration to the optional companion
studies will be performed at the time pre-registration occurs to the intervention study.
All site staff (Lead Group and CTSU Sites) will use OPEN to enroll patients to this study.
OPEN can be accessed at https://open.ctsu.org or from the OPEN tab on the CTSU
members’ side of the website at https://www.ctsu.org.
Prior to accessing OPEN site staff should verify the following:
•

All eligibility criteria have been met within the protocol stated timeframes. Site staff
should use the OPEN Enrollment forms provided on the group or CTSU web site as a
tool to verify eligibility.

•

All
patients
have
signed
an
authorization form (if applicable).

appropriate

consent

form

and

HIPAA

Access requirements for OPEN:
•

Site staff will need to be registered with CTEP and have a valid and active CTEP-IAM
account. This is the same account (user id and password) used for the CTSU
members' web site.

•

To perform registrations, the site user must have been assigned the 'Registrar' role on
the relevant Group or CTSU roster.

•

To perform registrations on protocols for which you are a member of the Lead Group,
you must have an equivalent 'Registrar' role on the Lead Group roster. Role
assignments are handled through the Groups in which you are a member

•

To perform registrations to trials accessed via the CTSU mechanism (i.e., non-Lead
Group registrations) you must have the role of Registrar on the CTSU roster. Site
and/or Data Administrators can manage CTSU roster roles via the new Site Roles
maintenance feature under RSS on the CTSU members' web site. This will allow them
to assign staff the "Registrar" role.

The OPEN system will provide the site with a printable confirmation of pre-registration.
Please print this confirmation for your records.
Further instructional information is provided on the OPEN tab of the CTSU members’ side
of the CTSU website at https://www.ctsu.org or at https://open.ctsu.org. For any
additional questions contact the CTSU Help Desk at 1-888-823-5923 or
ctsucontact@westat.com.
Within 24 hours of receiving the Confirmation of Preregistration, fax the C-2010,
MEAL Participant Contact Information Form to Nutrition Shared Resource at UCSD
at 858-822-6896 and notify Susan Wancewicz via email at swancewicz@ucsd.edu.

Version Date 09/26/18

Update #10
15

