A sequential discontinuation design would have been more in-
formative on how long to continue antipsychotic medication
after remission, but it would have required many more par-
ticipants and would have been more costly. Third, based on
other data,34 a 4-week taper of antipsychotic medication was
chosen. It is possible that a slower taper would have been as-
sociated with a lower relapse rate. Fourth, patients were not
assessed for the presence of comorbid personality disorders.
Some personality disorders are associated with suicide at-
tempts and risk of hospitalization,35 which were criteria for re-
lapse in this study. If randomized groups had differed in the
frequency of personality disorders, this imbalance could have
affected the primary outcome. Fifth, because of early relapse
and exit from the study, 50% of the participants in the pla-
cebogroupwereobservedfor20weeksorless,whichmayhave
led to an underestimation of the reduction in weight and lip-
ids associated with discontinuation of olanzapine. Sixth, there
were no data on biomarkers of risk of relapse. Forty-five per-
cent of participants switched to placebo did not relapse, and
they benefited from a decline in weight and lipids. These find-
ings suggest the need to identify clinical and biological pre-
dictors of relapse following antipsychotic discontinuation; this
would allow some precision when deciding which individu-
als can be safely withdrawn from antipsychotic medication
after remission of psychotic depression.
Conclusions
Among patients with psychotic depression in remission, con-
tinuing sertraline plus olanzapine compared with sertraline
plus placebo reduced the risk of relapse over 36 weeks. This
benefit needs to be balanced against potential adverse effects
of olanzapine, including weight gain.
ARTICLE INFORMATION
Accepted for Publication: June 27, 2019.
Author Affiliations: Department of Psychiatry,
University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada
(Flint, Voineskos, Mulsant); Centre for Mental
Health, University Health Network, Toronto,
Ontario, Canada (Flint); Department of Psychiatry,
Weill Medical College of Cornell University and
New York Presbyterian Hospital, Westchester
Division, New York (Meyers, Alexopoulos, Marino,
Pollari); University of Massachusetts Medical School
and UMass Memorial Health Care, Worcester
(Rothschild); Western Psychiatric Institute and
Clinic, Department of Psychiatry, University of
Pittsburgh School of Medicine, Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania (Whyte); National Institute of Mental
Health, Bethesda, Maryland (Rudorfer);
Department of Healthcare Policy and Research,
Weill Cornell Medical College, New York, New York
(Banerjee, Wu); Centre for Addiction and Mental
Health, Toronto, Ontario, Canada (Voineskos,
Mulsant).
Author Contributions: Dr Flint had full access to all
of the data in the study and takes responsibility for
the integrity of the data and the accuracy of the
data analysis.
Concept and design: Flint, Meyers, Rothschild,
Whyte, Mulsant.
Acquisition, analysis, or interpretation of data: All
authors.
Drafting of the manuscript: Flint, Meyers,
Rothschild, Whyte, Alexopoulos, Rudorfer, Marino,
Banerjee, Voineskos, Mulsant.
Critical revision of the manuscript for important
intellectual content: All authors.
Statistical analysis: Banerjee, Pollari, Wu.
Obtained funding: Flint, Meyers, Rothschild, Whyte,
Mulsant.
Administrative, technical, or material support: Flint,
Meyers, Rothschild, Whyte, Alexopoulos, Rudorfer,
Marino, Voineskos, Mulsant.
Supervision: Flint, Meyers, Rothschild, Whyte,
Alexopoulos, Marino, Mulsant.
The STOP-PD II Study Group: Centre for Addiction
and Mental Health, Toronto: Benoit Mulsant, MD,
James Kennedy, MD, Bruce Pollock, MD, PhD, and
Aristotle Voineskos, MD, PhD; National Institute of
Mental Health, Bethesda: Matthew Rudorfer, MD;
University Health Network, Toronto: Alastair Flint,
MB, Peter Giacobbe, MD, and Brenda Swampillai,
BSc. University of Massachusetts Medical School
and UMass Memorial Health Care, Worcester:
Anthony Rothschild, MD, Kristina Deligiannidis, MD,
Chelsea Kosma, MA, and Wendy Marsh, MD; Weill
Medical College of Cornell University and New York
Presbyterian Hospital: Barnett Meyers, MD, George
Alexopoulos, MD, Samprit Banerjee, PhD, Judith
English, MA, James Kocsis, MD, Barbara
Ladenheim, PhD, Vassilios Latoussakis, MD, Patricia
Marino, PhD, Nikhil Palekar, MD, Christina Pollari,
MPH, and Yiyuan Wu, MS; Western Psychiatric
Institute and Clinic, University of Pittsburgh School
of Medicine, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania: Ellen Whyte,
MD, Meryl Butters, PhD, Ariel Gildengers, MD,
Joelle Kincman, PhD, and Michelle Zmuda, MA.
Conflict of Interest Disclosures: Dr Flint reported
receiving grants from National Institutes of Health,
the Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute,
the Canadian Institutes of Health Research, Brain
Canada, the Ontario Brain Institute, and Alzheimer's
Association and nonfinancial support from Eli Lilly
and Pfizer. Dr Rothschild reported receiving grants
from National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH),
the Irving S. and Betty Brudnick Endowed Chair in
Psychiatry, Allergan, Janssen, and Takeda;
nonfinancial support from Eli Lilly and Pfizer;
personal fees from Alkermes, GlaxoSmithKline,
Sage Therapeutics, Sanofi-Aventis, UMass Medical
School, the American Psychiatric Press, and
UpToDate. Dr Whyte reported receiving grants
from the NIMH, National Institutes of Health, and
Health Resources and Services Administration and
nonfinancial support from Pfizer and Lilly. Dr
Alexopoulos reported receiving grants from the
NIMH and nonfinancial support from Pfizer and
Lilly; personal fees from Takeda, Lundbeck, Otsuka,
Allergan, Astra Zeneca, and Sunovion. Dr Voineskos
reported receiving grants from the NIMH, the
Canadian Institute of Health Research, Canadian
Foundation for Innovation, Centre for Addiction
and Mental Health Foundation, Brain Behavior
Research Foundation, and the University of
Toronto. Dr Mulsant reported receiving grants from
Brain Canada, Centre for Addiction and Mental
Health Foundation, the Canadian Institutes of
Table 5. Post Hoc Outcome: The Number of Participants Who Experienced an Incident High Fasting
Metabolic Value in the Randomized Clinical Triala
Sertraline Plus, No. (%)
Absolute Unadjusted
Difference Between Groups,
% (95% CI)
Olanzapine
(n = 64)
Placebo
(n = 62)
Cholesterol
Total (≥1 value above both participant’s RCT baseline
and 240 mg/dL)
9 (14.1)
6 (9.7)
4.3 (−8 to 17.2)
LDL (≥1 value above both participant’s RCT baseline
and 160 mg/dL)
9 (14.1)
6 (9.7)
4.3 (−8 to 17.2)
Triglycerides (≥1 value above both participant’s RCT baseline
and 200 mg/dL)
4 (6.3)
2 (3.2)
3.0 (−6.7 to 13.3)b
Glucose (≥1 value above both participant’s RCT baseline
and 126 mg/dL)
4 (6.3)
4 (6.5)
−0.2 (−9.9 to 9.9)b
Abbreviation: LDL, low-density
lipoprotein; RCT, randomized
clinical trial.
SI conversion factors: To convert
cholesterol from mg/dL to mmol/L,
multiply by 0.0259; glucose from
mg/dL to mmol/L, multiply by
0.0555; triglycerides from mg/dL to
mmol/L, multiply by 0.0113.
a An incident high-fasting metabolic
value was defined as being higher
than both the RCT baseline value
and the threshold.28-30
bExact confidence interval.
Research Original Investigation
Effect of Continuing Olanzapine vs Placebo on Relapse Among Patients With Psychotic Depression in Remission
630
JAMA
August 20, 2019
Volume 322, Number 7
(Reprinted)
jama.com
© 2019 American Medical Association. All rights reserved.
Downloaded from jamanetwork.com by University of Arizona Health Sciences Library user on 07/30/2026
