Randomization
Randomization was computer-generated with a 1:1 allocation
ratio and a block size range of 4 to 8, stratified by age (18-59
yearsvs60-85years),remissionvsnearremissionstatusatran-
domization, and study site.
Intervention
All participants continued to take open-label sertraline for the
duration of the trial. They were randomized under double-
blind conditions to either continue olanzapine or switch from
olanzapine to identically appearing placebo pills over a 4-week
taper of olanzapine. The double-blind taper was conducted ac-
cording to a schedule for the substitution of blinded olanza-
pine or placebo for open-label olanzapine, based on the num-
ber of olanzapine pills that the participant was taking at the
time of randomization (Supplement 1). Participants in the trial
were assessed weekly for the first 8 weeks and once every 4
weeks thereafter until study completion at week 36, relapse,
or early termination. If a participant chose to discontinue one
or both study medications, including replacing study medi-
cation(s) with other psychotropic medication, every effort was
made to continue research assessments for the entire course
ofrandomizedtreatmentoruntilrelapse,whichevercamefirst.
Outcomes
Primary Outcome: Relapse
Risk of relapse was the primary outcome. Relapse criteria were
broad, to reflect a range of clinically relevant outcomes of
psychotic depression. Declaring relapse required at least 1 of
the following: (1) enough Structured Clinical Interview for the
DSM (SCID)–rated symptoms to meet criteria for a DSM-IV ma-
jor depressive episode; (2) 17-item HDRS score of 18 or higher;
(3) SCID-rated psychosis (delusions or hallucinations);
or (4) other significant clinical worsening, defined as having
a suicide plan or attempting suicide, developing SCID-rated
symptoms of mania or hypomania, or being hospitalized in
a psychiatric unit. Although patients with a diagnosis of bipo-
lar disorder were not eligible for the study, psychotic depres-
sion in younger adults may predict subsequent development
ofmaniaorhypomania.1Participantswithrelapseleftthestudy
and were treated under usual care conditions. Whenever pos-
sible, investigators remained blind to the randomization as-
signment of participants after they left the study.
Secondary Outcomes: Anthropometric and Metabolic Measures
Weight and waist circumference were measured at each
study visit. Fasting cholesterol and triglycerides levels, as
well as fasting glucose and hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c), were
measured at the RCT baseline, once every 8 weeks thereafter,
and at study termination.
Other Measures of Tolerability
Research psychiatrists measured RCT baseline extrapyramidal
symptoms, every 4 weeks thereafter, and at study termina-
tion. Parkinsonism was measured with the Simpson-Angus
Scale15 (total score range, 0-40, with higher scores indicating
greater severity), akathisia with the Barnes Akathisia scale16
(score range on the global clinical assessment, 0-5, with higher
scores indicating greater severity), and tardive dyskinesia with
theAbnormalInvoluntaryMovementsScale17 (scorerange,0-5
on each of 10 items, with higher score on each item indicating
greater severity). Incident akathisia was defined as a Barnes
global clinical assessment score16 of 0 at RCT baseline and 2 or
higher at any subsequent assessment. Incident tardive dyski-
nesiawasdefinedaccordingtoSchooler-Kaneresearchcriteria.18
Adverseeffectswereelicitedfromparticipantsateachvisit
withtheUdvalgforKliniskeUndersogelser19scale(scorerange,
0-3 on each of 48 items, with higher score on each item indi-
cating greater severity). With the exception of weight gain and
weight loss, an adverse effect was considered present if there
was a 2-point increase from RCT baseline or a score of 3 or 4
and an increase from baseline. Adverse weight gain was op-
erationalized as measured weight of more than 7% higher than
premorbid weight and adverse weight loss was operational-
ized as measured weight more than 7% lower than premorbid
weight. Premorbid weight, defined as the most recent known
weight prior to onset of the current episode of depression, was
used so that we could account for depression-related weight
loss. Incident falls were queried at each study visit. In addi-
tion,werecordedseriousadverseeventsthatresultedindeath,
life-threatening problems including suicide attempts, persis-
tent or significant disability or incapacity, or hospitalization.
Power Analysis
We calculated that a sample of 176 randomized participants
would provide 80% power to detect a 20% difference in risk
of relapse between randomized groups and up to 15% attri-
tion. A 20% difference would mean that 5 patients would need
to be treated with olanzapine to prevent 1 case of relapse, a fig-
ure that is consistent with 1 year of continuation of antide-
pressanttreatmentfornonpsychoticdepression.20Threeyears
after the start of recruitment, however, a revised sample size
of 128 randomized participants was approved by NIMH and its
data and safety monitoring board because of a higher than an-
ticipated overall risk of relapse.
Statistical Analyses
Analyses included all randomized participants. The primary
hypothesis was tested with a Cox proportional hazards model
thatcomparedriskofrelapseacrosstreatmentgroups.TheCox
model included treatment group and the 3 aforementioned
stratification variables as covariates. The proportional haz-
ards assumption of the Cox models was confirmed by visual
inspection of complementary log-log plots and tests of corre-
lation of the Schoenfeld residual with time. In addition, a Cox
model that excluded participants who had elected to discon-
tinue either sertraline, olanzapine or placebo, or both but re-
mained in the study for research assessments was performed
as a post hoc sensitivity analysis.
Linear mixed models were used to analyze the anthropo-
metric and metabolic measures. Each of these models in-
cluded a participant-level random intercept and random slope
(with continuous time) and fixed effects for site, time, treat-
mentgroup,andtreatment × timeinteraction.APoissonmixed-
effects regression with an overdispersion parameter was used
to analyze Simpson-Angus Scale15 scores. This model included
Effect of Continuing Olanzapine vs Placebo on Relapse Among Patients With Psychotic Depression in Remission
Original Investigation Research
jama.com
(Reprinted)
JAMA
August 20, 2019
Volume 322, Number 7
625
© 2019 American Medical Association. All rights reserved.
Downloaded from jamanetwork.com by University of Arizona Health Sciences Library user on 07/30/2026
