       9.5. Analysis methods – primary outcome(s)
The primary outcome is SSI within 30 days of surgery, as defined by the internationally accredited
CDC criteria.

This outcome is a binary outcome (i.e. yes/no) and will be computed based on details provided
in the data manipulation section 9.4. The number and percentage of participants reporting an
SSI within 30 days of index surgery will be reported by treatment group. An adjusted relative
risk and 95% Confidence Interval (CI), as well as the adjusted risk difference and 95% CI will
be estimated from a mixed effects binomial regression model. A log link will be used in the model
to estimate the relative risk and the identity link will be used in the model to estimate the risk
difference. The p-value for the adjusted relative risk will be reported.

A template for reporting the primary outcome is given in Appendix D6.


       9.6. Analysis methods – secondary outcomes
A template for reporting all the secondary outcomes is given in Appendix D7.

   • Length of hospital stay after surgery
This outcome will be treated as continuous data, and will be summarised using means and
standard deviations. It will be analysed using a mixed effects linear regression model to estimate
the adjusted mean difference between groups and corresponding 95% CI. Length of hospital
stay after index surgery will be computed as the difference (in days) between the date of surgery
and date of discharge. For participants that are discharged on the same day as the surgery day,
number of days in hospital for these participants will be “0” days.

Note: This outcome will be analysed for patients randomised from the UK only, and so all patients
randomised from Australia will be excluded from the analysis for this outcome.


    • Wound complications within 30 days post-surgery as graded by Clavien-Dindo
This outcome is a binary outcome (yes/no) and will be computed based on details provided in
the data manipulation section 9.4. This outcome will be analysed using the same analysis
methods as described for the primary outcome in section 9.5.



    • Hospital re-admission for wound related complications within 30 days
This outcome is a binary outcome (yes/no) and will be computed based on details provided in
the data manipulation section 9.4. This outcome will be analysed using the same analysis
methods as described for the primary outcome in section 9.5.




           SUNRRISE SAP Version 1.0                                           Page 25 of 46
    • Short Form-12 (SF-12)
The data for this outcome is collected at baseline, day 7 and day 30. The data for this outcome
is continuous and there are two main components to this questionnaire; the transformed Physical
Component Score (PCS) and Mental Component Score (MCS). The computation for both of these
scores is described in the data manipulations section 9.4.

Difference between group means and associated 95% CI at the primary time points (day 7 and
day 30) will be estimated through the use of a repeated measures8, mixed-effects linear
regression model. All assessment times (baseline and the post-treatment time points) will be
included. Parameters allowing for participant, treatment group, baseline score, time and the
randomisation minimisation variables will be included (all as fixed effects except centre which
will be included as a random effect). Time will be assumed to be a categorical (fixed) variable.
To allow for a varying treatment effect over time, a time by treatment interaction parameter will
be included in the model. Estimates of the mean differences between groups at the relevant time
will be taken from the model including this interaction parameter. A general ‘unstructured’
covariance structure will be assumed. Robust standard errors ‘sandwich estimator’9 will be
incorporated to allow for the possibility of the violation of normality of regression residuals.

Note: The analysis for the quality of life outcome will be done separately for PCS and MCS.


    • EuroQuol-5 Dimension-5 Level (EQ-5D-5L)
The data for this outcome is collected at baseline, day 7, day 14, day 21 and day 30. The data
for this outcome is continuous and there are two main components to this questionnaire; the
EQ-5D index score and EQ-5D health score. The computation for the EQ-5D index score is
described in the data manipulations section 9.4.

The analysis for this outcome will be analysed using the same analysis methods as described for
the secondary outcome SF-12.

Note: The analysis the index score and the health score will be done separately.


   • Pain at the site of primary laparotomy
The data for this outcome is collected at day 7 and day 30 and is in the form of a 10-point visual
analogue scale from 1-10 were 1 indicates no pain at all and 10 indicates worst possible pain.
The data for this outcome will be treated as continuous data and will be analysed using the same
analysis methods as described for the secondary outcome Length of hospital stay after surgery.

Note: The analysis for day 7 and day 30 will be done separately.




           SUNRRISE SAP Version 1.0                                           Page 26 of 46
