eFigure 1. Eligibility and Exclusion Criteria


 Inclusion Criteria

     1.   Acute ischemic or hemorrhagic (i.e. intracerebral hemorrhage excluding subarachnoid
          hemorrhage and cerebral venous sinus thrombosis) stroke ≤ 7 days prior to randomization

     2.   Clinically meaningful hemiparesis (i.e. scoring a total of ≥ 3 points on the following NIH stroke
          scale score items (i) motor arm, (ii) motor leg, (iii) limb ataxia; a distal arm paresis is equivalent
          to one of the aforementioned (i-iii))

     3.   Time of randomization ≥24-hours since thrombolysis or thrombectomy

     4.   In-hospital rehabilitation required

     5.   Capable to participate in a standardized rehabilitation therapy

     6.   Informed consent of patient or next to kin



 Exclusion Criteria
     1.   Age < 18 years

     2.   Diagnosis of Parkinson’s Disease

     3.   Use of Levodopa mandatory according to judgment of treating physician

     4.   Inability or unwillingness to comply with study procedures including adherence to study drug
          intake (orally, or via nasogastric tube or percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy tube)
     5.   Severe aphasia (i.e. unable to follow two-stage-commands)

     6.   Previously dependent in the basal activities of daily living (defined as modified Ranking Scale
          prior to stroke > 3)

     7.   Pre-existing hemiparesis

     8.   Known hypersensitivity to Levodopa/Carbidopa and other contraindications for
          Levodopa/Carbidopa as outlined in the summary of product characteristics (as appended to the
          study protocol).

     9.   Woman who are pregnant or breast feeding, or who intend to become pregnant during course
          of the study. Women of childbearing age must take a pregnancy test to be eligible for the study.

     10. Lack of safe contraception, defined as: Female Participants of childbearing potential, not using
         and not willing to continue using a medically reliable method of contraception for the entire
         study duration, such as oral, injectable, or implantable contraceptives, or intrauterine
         contraceptive devices, or who are not using any other method considered sufficiently reliable
         by the Investigator in individual cases. Female Participants who are surgically sterilized /
         hysterectomized or postmenopausal for longer than 2 years are not considered as being of
         child bearing potential.




© 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data mining,
AI training, and similar technologies.
