change technique taxonomy, a classification system of theory-
informed techniques used to modify behavior.15 The mes-
sages were translated into Bangla and Urdu using WHO’s
guidance,16thenreviewedandrefinedwithfeedbackfromapa-
tient group (phase 1). A pilot study involving 16 patients with
TB who smoked assessed user experiences with clarity, quan-
tity,timing,andfrequencyofmessages(phase2).Followingtrial
enrollment, participants first received 3 welcoming messages
explaining the program’s purpose and schedule. While the pro-
gram was not interactive, participants could opt out of receiv-
ing text messages by calling or texting the researchers.
The mHealth text messages supported cessation with mo-
tivational messages and coping strategies to reduce cravings
and address withdrawal symptoms. Messages to promote
healthy behaviors were also included. Alongside emphasiz-
ing the importance of taking TB medications and follow-up ap-
pointments, text messages addressed the association be-
tween TB and tobacco use, highlighting how smoking slows
recovery and increases the risk of relapse. In total, 134 unique
text messages were sent through a web-based application to
participants’ mobile numbers over 6 months. One hundred
messages were delivered (3-4 per day) in the first month, fol-
lowedby30messages(1perday)inthesecond,andthen4mes-
sages (1 per month) over the next 4 months. The last 4 mes-
sages were reminders for attending TB clinics and collecting
medications. The system reported weekly on the number of
sent messages and their recipients.
Participants in both groups received TB treatment con-
sisting of rifampicin, isoniazid, pyrazinamide, and ethambu-
tol. After 2 months, the regimen was reduced to rifampicin
and isoniazid. In addition, written information on tobacco-
relatedharmsandquitadvicewerealsoofferedtobothgroups.
None were offered medications to help them quit because
medications were neither available in the TB clinics nor ac-
cessible privately due to their prohibitive cost.
Trial Outcomes
The primary outcome was biochemically verified continuous
abstinence at 6 months after randomization. Abstinence was
defined as self-report of not having used more than 5 ciga-
rettes, bidis, or water pipe sessions since the quit date (set 5
days after enrollment), verified biochemically by a breath car-
bon monoxide reading of less than 10 ppm at month 6.17 In the
case of concomitant smokeless tobacco use at baseline, a rapid
test cassette (Hangzhou AllTest Biotech Co Ltd) was used to
detectcotinine(anicotinemetabolite)inurinesamples.Anega-
tive result verified abstinence.
We performed exploratory analyses of the following sec-
ondary outcomes: point abstinence, self-reported abstinence
from tobacco in the previous 7 days, assessed at week 9 and
month 6, adherence to TB treatment (number of days TB medi-
cation was taken), TB success rate (cured + treatment comple-
tion), TB treatment failure, TB treatment defaults (interrup-
tion of TB treatment for ≥2 months) and deaths at month 6.
Outcome details are provided in the trial protocol in
Supplement 1 and in the published protocol.13
The sample size (phase 3 in the protocol) was estimated
using 90% power, 5% significance level (2-sided), and absti-
nence probabilities of 18% and 8% for the mHealth and usual
care groups, respectively, at 6 months.18 An intracluster cor-
relation coefficient of 0.02 was used based on the recommen-
dations for behavioral outcomes in cluster RCTs.19 For a clus-
ter size of 26 participants, we estimated a design effect of 1.5.
After adjusting for this and an anticipated 20% attrition rate,
we arrived at a sample size of 1080 participants and 27 clus-
ters (capped at 40 participants per cluster).
Statistical Analysis
We reported the analyses in accordance with CONSORT guide-
lines (extension for cluster RCT).20 R version 4.4.3 (R Foun-
dation) and JASP Team (2024; version 0.19.3) were used for
data analysis.21
Data normality was tested visually and by using the
Shapiro-Wilk test. Categorical outcomes were summarized
using frequencies and percentages and continuous outcomes
using means and standard deviations. A mixed-effects model
was used to assess the effect of mHealth on abstinence out-
comes, incorporating fixed effects for the intervention and rel-
evant covariates selected post hoc (age, sex, education, occu-
pation, and smoking duration) and random effects for clusters.
Logistic regression within the mixed-effects framework was
used to analyze categorical outcomes, accounting for cluster-
level variability and intervention effects. Additionally, a bayes-
ian hierarchical logistic regression model was fit with the brms
packageinRtoestimatecluster-levelquitprobabilitiesand95%
credible intervals. We overlaid observed proportions to com-
pare raw data with our model-based results. For all analyses,
coefficients of intraclass correlation were estimated from the
variance components of a mixed-effects logistic regression
model using the lme4 package in R. For comparing death rates
between the 2 groups over 6 months, we used the Cox pro-
portional hazards frailty model, adjusting for site-level clus-
tering. The secondary outcomes were exploratory, and the
analysis was not adjusted for multiple comparisons. A post hoc
sensitivityanalysisusingacarbonmonoxidecutoffoflessthan
6 ppm was performed for the primary outcome.
Consistent with standard practice in smoking cessation
trials, missing primary outcome data were treated as a nega-
tive outcome (ie, not abstinent). The intervention effect esti-
mates were assessed through both intention-to-treat and com-
plete case analyses (those with missing primary outcome data
were discarded).22 A post hoc sensitivity analysis was also car-
ried out after excluding deaths.
We recorded the number and reasons for ineligibility and
calculated cluster-level recruitment, abstinence, TB treat-
ment success, and death rates. Using multilevel modeling, we
also explored associations between cluster characteristics and
the primary outcome. We adjusted for relevant sociodemo-
graphic covariates (selected post hoc) in the primary analy-
sis. We compared the primary outcome between the follow-
ing prespecified subgroups: age (<40 years and ≥40 years);
education(noformaleducation,primary,secondaryorhigher);
employment (active, dependent, retired); and smoking dura-
tion(<24yearsand≥24years).Allstatisticaltestswere2-sided,
and only P values less than .05 were considered statistically
significant.
Research Original Investigation
mHealth Intervention for Smoking Cessation
338
JAMA
January 27, 2026
Volume 335, Number 4
(Reprinted)
jama.com
© 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.
Downloaded from jamanetwork.com by University of Arizona Health Sciences Library user on 07/21/2026
