The mHealth text messages were delivered to all participants
as intended, and all clusters and more than 90% of partici-
pants were retained throughout the trial. The findings are con-
sistent with those from studies of face-to-face behavioral sup-
port in achieving tobacco abstinence in patients with TB.
A recent systematic review with 14 studies reported that smok-
ing cessation interventions can achieve between 15% and 82%
abstinence in patients with TB.29 A mobile-based telecounsel-
ing intervention among individuals with TB who smoked
achieved higher quit rates than those receiving brief advice at
6months(67.5%vs42%;RR,1.60[95%CI,1.19-2.16]).30Ahigher
effect size was observed for tobacco abstinence in people with
TBascomparedwiththeaforementionedreview7findingsbased
on 13 studies conducted in the general population, mostly in
high-incomecountries.Inpriorstudies,behavioralsupportwas
associated with a higher abstinence rate in people with TB who
smoke as compared with the general population.31,32 Access to
tobacco cessation interventions (such as quit lines, behavioral
support, and medications) is virtually nonexistent in both Ban-
gladesh and Pakistan.33 For most participants, this was likely
their first exposure to any cessation intervention, which makes
the observed effect more plausible.
In exploratory analyses, 4.8% of the trial participants died
of TB within 6 months; a similar death rate was observed in a
previous trial of people with TB who smoke.18 The probabil-
ity of death was significantly higher in the usual care group
compared with the mHealth group. This measurable mortal-
ity reduction within a short follow-up period of 6 months is
striking and should be confirmed in future studies. The asso-
ciationbetweensmokingandTBmortalityiswellestablished34;
hence, a higher abstinence rate (as observed here) may have
prevented deaths in the mHealth group compared with the
usual care group. A meta-analysis of 16 RCTs of psychosocial
interventions in medical settings reported improved patient
survival compared with controls, specifically when psycho-
social interventions explicitly promoted healthy behaviors.35
Limitations
The trial had several limitations. First, participants were al-
most entirely male (>96%). This is not surprising, given that
in Bangladesh and Pakistan, 97.8% and 91.4%, respectively, of
all adult individuals who smoke are men. Second, the com-
parator group received usual care; there was no attention con-
trol. Third, a substantial proportion of participants had no for-
maleducation,anditcouldnotbeconfirmediftheyunderstood
the text messages. Fourth, mHealth fidelity was monitored by
calling participants regularly, which could also act as an inter-
vention; hence, the results must be interpreted in light of this
element. Fifth, while measuring levels of breath CO is an es-
tablished method to validate self-reported abstinence, it can
onlyverifyshort-term(24-48hours)abstinenceduetoitsshort
half-life (5-6 hours).36 Sixth, we did not follow participants be-
yond their TB treatment, and therefore we cannot confirm if
abstinence was sustained; however, a previous smoking ces-
sation trial in people with TB reported that 3 of 4 people were
still abstinent at 1 year.18 Additionally, the observed intraclus-
ter correlation coefficient (0.19) was substantially higher than
the value (0.02) assumed for sample size calculation. How-
ever, the intervention still produced a statistically significant
effect, indicating robustness.
Conclusions
Among people with TB who smoke tobacco, an mHealth in-
tervention was effective in promoting continuous absti-
nence. mHealth is a feasible, effective, and potentially scal-
able means of supporting tobacco cessation.
ARTICLE INFORMATION
Accepted for Publication: October 9, 2025.
Published Online: December 22, 2025.
doi:10.1001/jama.2025.20765
Author Contributions: Drs Siddiqi and Danaee had
full access to all of the data in the study and take
responsibility for the integrity of the data and the
accuracy of the data analysis.
Concept and design: Rahman, Danaee, Ansaari,
Parrott, Huque, Norrie, Siddiqi.
Acquisition, analysis, or interpretation of data:
Zahid, Rahman, Danaee, Rana, Chowdhury, Lim,
Boeckmann, Li, Khan, Huque, Siddiqi.
Drafting of the manuscript: Zahid, Rahman, Danaee,
Rana, Ansaari, Parrott, Huque, Siddiqi.
Critical review of the manuscript for important
intellectual content: Chowdhury, Lim, Boeckmann,
Li, Khan, Norrie, Siddiqi.
Statistical analysis: Zahid, Danaee, Rana,
Chowdhury, Ansaari, Li, Norrie.
Obtained funding: Lim, Parrott, Norrie, Siddiqi.
Administrative, technical, or material support:
Zahid, Rahman, Lim, Boeckmann, Khan, Huque.
Supervision: Lim, Boeckmann, Khan, Huque,
Siddiqi.
Conflict of Interest Disclosures: Dr Siddiqi
reported receiving consulting fees from Perrigo
outside the submitted work. No other disclosures
were reported.
Funding/Support: This research was funded by the
NIHR (Global Health Research Unit on Respiratory
Health [RESPIRE]; NIHR132826) using UK
international development funding from the UK
Government to support global health research.
Role of the Funder/Sponsor: The NIHR had no role
in the design and conduct of the study; collection,
management, analysis, and interpretation of the
data; preparation, review, or approval of the
manuscript; and decision to submit the manuscript
for publication.
Disclaimer: The views expressed in this publication
are those of the author(s) and not necessarily those
of the NIHR or the UK government.
Data Sharing Statement: See Supplement 3.
Additional Contributions: We would like to
acknowledge the National and Provincial TB control
programs of Bangladesh and Pakistan for
permitting and supporting the execution of
research at TB sites. The RESPIRE collaboration
comprises the UK and low- and middle-income
countries grant holders, partners, and research
teams as listed on the RESPIRE website (https://
usher.ed.ac.uk/respire). We also acknowledge Harry
Campbell, FMedSci, and Linda Bauld, PhD
(University of Edinburgh), and Aziz Sheikh, FMedSci
(University of Oxford) for internally reviewing the
manuscript; they did not receive any
compensation.
REFERENCES
1. He H, Pan Z, Wu J, Hu C, Bai L, Lyu J. Health
effects of tobacco at the global, regional, and
national levels: results from the 2019 Global Burden
of Disease study. Nicotine Tob Res. 2022;24(6):
864-870. doi:10.1093/ntr/ntab265
2. Goodchild M, Nargis N, Tursan d’Espaignet E.
Global economic cost of smoking-attributable
diseases. Tob Control. 2018;27(1):58-64. doi:10.
1136/tobaccocontrol-2016-053305
3. World Health Organization. WHO Global Report
on Trends in Prevalence of Tobacco Use
2000-2025. Published 2019. Accessed November
7, 2025. https://escholarship.org/content/
qt0z43b5dv/qt0z43b5dv.pdf
4. Shankar A, Parascandola M, Sakthivel P, Kaur J,
Saini D, Jayaraj NP. Advancing tobacco cessation in
LMICs. Curr Oncol. 2022;29(12):9117-9124. doi:10.
3390/curroncol29120713
mHealth Intervention for Smoking Cessation
Original Investigation Research
jama.com
(Reprinted)
JAMA
January 27, 2026
Volume 335, Number 4
343
© 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.
Downloaded from jamanetwork.com by University of Arizona Health Sciences Library user on 07/21/2026
