T
obacco consumption poses a substantial threat to global
health, with more than 8.7 million deaths, a loss of
230 million disability-adjusted life-years, and a cost
of more than US $1.4 trillion, annually.1,2 Despite a reduction
in smoking prevalence,3 the persistently high absolute num-
bers (>1.3 billion) of people who use tobacco means that in-
tensifiedtobaccocontroleffortsarerequired.Thisneedisgreat-
estinlow-andmiddle-incomecountries,wheremorethan80%
of people who use tobacco live4 and of whom approximately
90% are men.5
Tobacco cessation is central to global efforts to reduce to-
bacco-related harm. Mobile health (mHealth) interventions for
tobacco cessation are promising due to their accessibility and
scalability.6 While the evidence supporting their effective-
nesscomesmainlyfromhigh-incomecountries,7theyhavepo-
tential to make tobacco cessation accessible to populations in
low- and middle-income countries.8 This study focuses on pa-
tients with tuberculosis (TB), a neglected group that may ben-
efit from an mHealth intervention.
Approximately 17% to 32% of individuals with TB cur-
rently smoke9; yet smoking is not adequately addressed for
several reasons, eg, lack of capacity, interest, and resources.10
Due to these barriers,11 no country with high TB burden
offers face-to-face tobacco cessation within TB services. Rec-
ognizing these challenges, the World Health Organization
(WHO) developed an mHealth tobacco cessation intervention
that delivers TB-specific text messages to people with TB
who smoke.12 However, high-quality evidence supporting the
effectiveness of mHealth tobacco cessation interventions in
patients with TB is lacking. The study hypothesis was that
relative to usual care, patients with TB receiving an mHealth
intervention would be more likely to achieve abstinence at 6
months. This article reports the findings of a cluster random-
ized clinical trial (RCT), in Bangladesh and Pakistan (2 coun-
tries with high burden of tobacco and TB), which tested this
hypothesis.
Methods
Trial Oversight
A trial steering committee met annually and reviewed the trial
protocol, questionnaires, patient information sheet, consent
forms, trial procedures, and progress. Ethics approvals were
obtained from the respective committees at the University of
Edinburgh, UK, and authorized national bodies in Bangladesh
and Pakistan. The trial complied with the UK General Data Pro-
tection Regulation and the Data Protection Act 2018.
Trial Design and Participants
Weconducteda2-group,multicenter,clusterRCTinBangladesh
(Dhaka) and Pakistan (Punjab) from September 18, 2023, to
January 2, 2025. A cluster design was chosen to minimize con-
tamination and because it was ethically simpler to imple-
ment. Twenty-seven TB clinics (clusters) were randomized,
in a 2:1 ratio, to the mHealth or usual care groups. In the pub-
lished protocol, this trial is referred to as the third phase of
the project.13
Government-approved TB clinics, registering at least 50
newpatientswithTBpermonth,wereeligible.Patients15years
or older, diagnosed with drug-sensitive pulmonary TB in the
last 4 weeks, people who smoked daily (at least 1 puff on ≥25
days in the last month), willing to quit and having access to
mobile phones, were eligible. Patients treated for multidrug
resistance, miliary or extrapulmonary TB, or for tobacco de-
pendence were excluded.
Trial Procedures
An independent statistician, blinded to TB clinics, used com-
puter-generated random-number lists to allocate clusters in
a 2:1 ratio to the mHealth and usual care groups. With more
clusters offering mHealth, the trial was expected to recruit
faster than with equal allocation.14 Randomization was strati-
fiedbycountry.Whilethenatureoftheintervention(mHealth)
and the cluster design precluded masking the participants
and researchers, the statistician remained masked during
the analysis.
AttheTBclinics,healthcarestaffidentifiedpatientsnewly
diagnosed with TB and referred them to the researchers for
eligibility assessment. Those eligible provided written in-
formed consent; for those younger than 18 years, parents/
guardians provided written consent. Data were collected on
day 0, week 9, and month 6 from all participants, correspond-
ing with routine TB clinic visits. If a participant missed their
appointment, they were assessed within 5 days, via tele-
phone or home visit.
TomonitorinterventionfidelityinthemHealthgroup,par-
ticipants were called weekly to check if they were receiving
and reading the messages or having the messages read to
them. Those in the control group were also called weekly, to
detect any contamination. A custom-made mobile app was
used to collect the data, which were managed using a secure
web platform.
Trial Intervention
The mHealth intervention was designed to deliver TB-specific
text messages to people with TB.12 These messages, together
with a guide, were developed by a group of public health ex-
perts, epidemiologists, and behavioral scientists convened by
WHO in 2019.12 The messages were grounded in the behavior
Key Points
Question What is the effectiveness of a mHealth (mobile health)
intervention for achieving self-reported continuous tobacco
abstinence at 6 months, compared with usual care in people with
tuberculosis (TB)?
Findings In this randomized clinical trial that included 1080
patients with TB who smoked tobacco, the proportion achieving
self-reported continuous tobacco abstinence at 6 months,
supported by biochemical verification at 6 months, was
significantly higher with mHealth (41.7%) vs with usual care
(15.3%).
Meaning In people with TB who smoke tobacco, the use of
an mHealth intervention may be warranted.
mHealth Intervention for Smoking Cessation
Original Investigation Research
jama.com
(Reprinted)
JAMA
January 27, 2026
Volume 335, Number 4
337
© 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.
Downloaded from jamanetwork.com by University of Arizona Health Sciences Library user on 07/21/2026
