Telehealth and Online Cognitive Behavioral Therapy for Chronic Pain Original Investigation Research
rural and/or medically underserved areas, and many had lim- cused on patient self-reported pain and pain-related interfer-
ited financial resources and higher social determinants of ence as these are commonly used metrics in clinical care.71,72
health needs. Generalizability of the findings is increased by Yet such an approach does not permit teasing out the effect
broad inclusion and limited exclusion criteria. The trial of attention or the subjectivity of patient self-report on the over-
included individuals with diverse types of musculoskeletal all findings. Second, the online painTRAINER program could
chronic pain, rather than limiting participation to those with not be offered in Spanish, and consequently the study had low
chronic pain at a single anatomical location, and also enrollment of patients identifying as Hispanic. Third, while ef-
included those with substantial self-reported concomitant forts were made to correct for potential missing-outcome bias
mood disorders (depression and anxiety) and sleep-related with imputation and nonresponse weighting, potential bias
problems. Additionally, although this study was funded prior may remain, especially given the differential assessment
to the emergence of COVID-19, the pandemic brought a shift follow-up response rates by group (substantively lower in the
toward online and telehealth-based clinical services for con- painTRAINER group).
ditions like chronic pain. This shift renders the RESOLVE
study questions particularly timely and salient, namely, the
comparative effectiveness of 2 widely accepted, remote
Conclusions
forms of CBT-CP treatments with delivery facilitated by
frontline staff without previous expertise in management of Among adults with high-impact chronic musculoskeletal
chronic pain.67,68 pain, remote CBT-CP–based skills training programs (tele-
health and self-completed online) resulted in greater reduc-
Limitations tion in pain severity after treatment, sustained through 12
Limitations of this study must be acknowledged. First, be- months, when compared with usual care. Findings suggest
cause this was a pragmatic comparative effectiveness trial, it that centralizing delivery of the CBT-CP based programs via
used a usual care comparator because it was most pertinent telephone/videoconferencing and online interventions is
to evaluate the added benefit of these CBT-based interven- effective, with potential for widespread dissemination into
tions in real world settings,23,69,70 and the study purposely fo- clinical care and health care organizations nationwide.
ARTICLE INFORMATION Drafting of the manuscript: DeBar, Mayhew, Management Effectiveness Research Network
Accepted for Publication: June 16, 2025. Wellman, Balderson, Keefe, VonKorff, Thompson, under U24TR004314 (clinical coordinating
Cook. resource center), U24004315 (data coordinating
Published Online: July 23, 2025. Critical review of the manuscript for important resource center), U24TR004316 (statistical and
doi:10.1001/jama.2025.11178 intellectual content: DeBar, Wellman, Balderson, safety resource center), and U24TR004317
Author Affiliations: Kaiser Permanente Center for Dickerson, Elder, Justice, Keefe, McMullen, (recruitment resource center).
Health Research, Portland, Oregon (DeBar, Owen-Smith, Rini, VonKorff, Waring, Yarava, Shen, Role of the Funder/Sponsor: The National
Mayhew, Dickerson, Elder, McMullen); Kaiser Clark, Casper. Institutes of Health had no role in the design and
Permanente Washington Health Research Institute, Statistical analysis: Wellman, Dickerson, Justice, conduct of the study; collection, management,
Seattle (Wellman, Balderson, Justice, Von Korff, Yarava, Shen, Thompson, Casper, Cook. analysis, and interpretation of the data;
Cook); Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Obtained funding: DeBar, Balderson, Owen-Smith, preparation, review, or approval of the manuscript;
Sciences, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, Cook. and decision to submit the manuscript for
North Carolina (Keefe); Georgia State University Administrative, technical, or material support: publication.
and Center for Research and Evaluation Kaiser Mayhew, Balderson, Elder, Justice, Keefe,
Permanente Georgia, Atlanta (Owen-Smith); McMullen, Owen-Smith, Rini, Waring, Casper. Disclaimer: The content is solely the responsibility
Department of Medical Social Sciences and Robert Supervision: DeBar, Balderson, Elder, Justice, of the authors and does not necessarily represent
H. Lurie Comprehensive Cancer Center, Waring, Cook. the official views of the National Institutes of
Northwestern University Feinberg School of Conflict of Interest Disclosures: Dr Keefe reported Health.
Medicine, Chicago, Illinois (Rini); Essentia Institute receiving grants from Duke University during the Data Sharing Statement: See Supplement 6.
of Rural Health, Duluth, Minnesota (Waring); BIOS conduct of the study; in addition, Duke University, Additional Contributions: We thank our study
Clinical Trials Coordinating Center, Johns Hopkins on behalf of Dr Keefe, holds the copyright to team of project managers, recruitment staff,
School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland (Yarava); painTRAINER. This online program is free to all who assessors, analysts, and health coaches at the
Department of Biostatistics, Johns Hopkins wish to use it; neither Duke University nor Dr Keefe KPGA, KPNW, KPWA, and Essentia sites. We also
Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, receives any funds for the use of this online thank Jennifer L. Murphy, PhD (US Department of
Maryland (Shen, Thompson); University of Utah, program. Dr Cook reported receiving grants from Veterans Affairs), for serving as a paid consultant to
Utah Data Coordinating Center, Salt Lake City the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the study and providing training and fidelity
(Clark); Department of Pediatrics, University of the Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute monitoring for the health coaches. Further, we
Utah School of Medicine, Salt Lake City outside the submitted work. No other disclosures appreciate the support and collaboration from our
(Casper). were reported. colleagues at the Trial Innovation Centers at the
Author Contributions: Drs Thompson and Cook Funding/Support: This research was supported by Duke Clinical Research Institute, University of Utah,
had full access to all of the data in the study and the National Institutes of Health through the NIH and Johns Hopkins University and the Recruitment
take responsibility for the integrity of the data and HEAL Initiative (https://heal.nih.gov/) under Innovation Center at Vanderbilt University Medical
the accuracy of the data analysis. UG3AG067493/UH3AG067493. Research reported Center. Last, we are grateful for the strong support
Concept and design: DeBar, Mayhew, Balderson, in this article was also supported by the NCATS Trial of our National Institutes of Health colleagues,
Keefe, Owen-Smith, VonKorff, Cook. Innovation Network under U24TR001608 (clinical especially project scientist Laura Wandner, PhD;
Acquisition, analysis, or interpretation of data: coordinating center), U24TR001597 (data HEAL Pain Effectiveness Management Research
DeBar, Mayhew, Wellman, Dickerson, Elder, Justice, coordinating center), U24TR001579 (recruitment Network leads Yolanda Vallejo, PhD, and Jane
McMullen, Owen-Smith, Rini, VonKorff, Waring, innovation center), and U24TR001609 (statistical Atkinson, DDS; and our program officers from the
Yarava, Shen, Thompson, Clark, Casper, Cook. coordinating center) as well as the HEAL Pain National Institutes of Aging.
jama.com (Reprinted) JAMA August 19, 2025 Volume 334, Number 7 603
© 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.
Downloaded from jamanetwork.com by University of Arizona Health Sciences Library user on 07/23/2026
