CALGB 70807

Dietary Targets: Participants in the intervention arm will be encouraged to achieve a
challenging but attainable dietary pattern: 7 servings per day of vegetables (2 cruciferous,
2 tomato products, 3 other vegetables), 2 servings per day of whole grains, 1 serving per
day of beans or other legumes, and 2 servings per day of fruit. Vegetable juice will be
promoted as a means of increasing vegetable nutrients without the potential
gastrointestinal problems of very high fiber intake. As vegetable intake appears most
strongly associated with protection, the intervention will emphasize vegetable intake.
To maximize intake of the most bioactive nutrients and phytochemicals, intervention
participants will be instructed to omit fruit juice, iceberg lettuce, and white potatoes from
their calculations of plant vegetable and fruit servings. Counselor/coaches will emphasize
colorful vegetables along with strong-flavored produce (cruciferous vegetables, onions,
garlic), since strong flavor is an indicator (albeit crude) of phytochemical concentration.
Within the context of these overall dietary targets, participants will be guided to obtain an
adequate intake of all essential nutrients.
8.6.1 Quality control
Quality control will be enhanced by providing the telephone counseling from a
centralized location at the Moores UCSD Cancer Center, thus enabling weekly case
management meetings and flexibility in scheduling. Dietary counselors will be hired
based on their demonstrated communication skills, telephone manner, knowledge of
food and nutrition, and their enthusiasm for achieving the study dietary targets.
Counselors will complete an intensive 80-hour training program addressing the
rationale for the study, protocols for conducting 24-hour dietary recalls, the
principles and practice of motivational interviewing and review of a random selection
of recorded calls.
All counselors will practice extensive role-playing before conducting their first
coaching session. This training will be overseen by the UCSD behavior change study
WHDPWKHWHDPKDVEHHQLQYROYHGLQDPXOWLWXGHRIEHKDYLRUFKDQJHVWXGLHV
We have developed a detailed, relational database that provides counselors with a
computer-assisted coaching protocol for their participant contacts. All contacts will be
recorded in the database, and the database will generate the call schedule for each
counselor each day. Calls will then follow a script that includes suggested question
phrasing and responses to key questions inserted into the databasH LQ UHDO WLPH
these standardize intervention delivery. Automatic range checks will ensure quality in
the dataset. At the completion of each call, the counselor will be prompted for detailed
comments that can be used in the next contact. These comments will be reviewed by
the supervisor as a component of performance review. Each counselor’s performance
will be compared to that of his or her peers, in terms of achieving dietary change
toward study goals and in keeping the database complete.
The database will provide weekly management reports to focus on key aspects of
study progress, including delinquent data collection. The database will help us
monitor regularly scheduled study operations, to comply with aspects of the protocol.
For example, study reports will be generated, as needed, to identify intervention
participants who have not been contacted as scheduled in the protocol. The reports
will be provided to the counselors to help keep them on schedule, and to ensure that
participants with lagging performance or possibly lagging interest do not drop out of
the study.
To maximize effectiveness of the intervention, we will seek participant permission, in
advance, to monitor calls. We will then monitor 10% of calls. The calls will be audiotaped and reviewed by peers and by supervisors to ensure that the intervention is
standardized across participants. Throughout the study period, weekly casePDQDJHPHQW VHVVLRQV ZLOO EH FRQGXFWHG VXSHUYLVRUV VWXG\ LQYHVWLJDWRUV DQG
counselors will use these to resolve challenging issues that have emerged.
A registered dietitian will supervise the telephone counseling intervention team.
Counselors will also attend monthly 2-hour meetings, which will include updates on
Version Date 09/26/18

Update #10
28

