Research Proposal:                                            Application ID: APP1102732
                                                              CIA Surname: Jones
treatment34. Previous studies show that krill oil reduces lipid levels in people with
hyperlipidaemia40. As one study has suggested that krill oil may reduce insulin sensitivity41, we
will monitor fasting blood glucose levels at each blood sampling.
7. Lower limb muscle strength
Lower limb muscle strength is a key correlate of pain and will be measured by dynamometry in the
lower limbs (involving both legs simultaneously) at weeks 0, 12 and 24. This technique mainly
measures quadriceps and hip flexors; these are the most important muscle groups for knee OA
based on our studies and those of others; strength in other muscle groups eg hamstrings are not
associated with knee OA42. Repeatability estimates (Cronbach’s α) were 0.9143. Dynamometer–
assessed leg strength improves longitudinally when pain reduces (unpublished data, 4Jointz trial)44.
8. Anthropometry
These include height (stadiometer) and weight (electronic scales) measured at weeks 0, 12 and 24.
9. Concomitant medication
Use of pain medicines will be recorded by questionnaire at all visits, including over-the-counter
remedies, interventions, or supplements. Participants will be asked to keep medications as stable as
possible (including NSAIDs) and use paracetamol as rescue medication, which will be provided by
us. Use of fish and krill oil during the trial will not be permitted, and use must cease 4 weeks prior
to randomisation. Participants who commence anti–coagulant therapy will be withdrawn from the
trial.
10. Compliance estimates
Participants will be asked to bring unused softgels with them to their clinic visits at 12 and 24
weeks. These will be counted, enabling estimates of treatment compliance. This is the best
method45, and is industry standard for measuring compliance.
11. Joint replacement
We plan to collect data on joint replacement, including date of surgery, by asking about knee
surgery at each time point, and also by retaining contact with study participants once the study is
complete. We will also report time to joint replacement if there is sufficient data. This will be able
to be collected both from the patient themselves and from the national joint replacement registry
using linked data.
12. Cost data / quality of life
The Assessment of Quality of Life (AQoL) questionnaire can be used to calculate utility values.
Data on medication use, adverse events and time away from work will be used as key inputs for
health economic evaluations. Cost-effectiveness analysis on the primary outcome measure and
cost-utility analysis with the AQoL will be possible if the primary endpoints are met. Cost data and
service use will be able to be assessed from linked data, including PBS and MBS data.
13. Service use / medication use
We plan to assess use of services, medications and other aspects of health by linking to datasets
available for linkage. These include Medicare and Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS) datasets,
the National Death Index, the National Joint Replacement Registry, and state-based hospital
emergency databases and hospital inpatient databases, and other health datasets.
14. Pressure pain threshold testing
Pressure pain threshold testing (PPT) assesses sensitivity to pain. There is increasing evidence that
some people with OA have abnormal sensation in the areas of their body that are painful, including
pressure-induced pain46. Presence of abnormal sensation of this type has implications for response
to pharmaceutical treatment, hence will be assessed where facilities permit (Melbourne, Perth).
PPT will be conducted using a pressure algometer (FDN200, Wagner Instruments, USA), applied
over 3 test sites: the affected joint (knee, assessed over the patella), an unaffected joint (ipsilateral
radioulnar joint), and over the thenar eminence47. Fourteen-day test-retest reliability for PPT was


Protocol number: KARAOKE trial, version 02 February 2016                                     Page 9
