Research Proposal:                                          Application ID: APP1102732
                                                            CIA Surname: Jones


A randomised trial of krill oil for osteoarthritis of the knee

  Background: Knee osteoarthritis (OA) is a significant and increasing cause of pain and
  disability in the Australian population. So far, interventions aimed at structural modification
  have been disappointing. OA affects the whole joint, and inflammation of the joint lining
  (synovitis and joint fluid) is now recognised as a key part of osteoarthritis.
  Animal studies suggest that krill oil is anti–inflammatory. Pilot data in humans shows that krill
  oil reduces knee pain and systemic inflammation after 30 days, suggesting that an approach
  targeted at specific mechanisms of disease may be effective for OA. However, this study was
  of short duration, did not collect any data on structural factors, and included patients with a
  variety of disorders. Longer, larger follow up studies are required.
  Aim: To compare, using a randomised, placebo–controlled double–blind design over six
  months, the efficacy of krill oil vs identical placebo to treat knee osteoarthritis (OA) (both pain
  and structure) in 260 patients with clinical knee OA, significant knee pain and effusion on
  imaging.
  Primary hypothesis:
  Krill oil decreases pain (assessed by 100mm VAS) by 10mm more than identical placebo over
  24 weeks in patients with clinical knee OA, significant knee pain and effusions.
  Secondary hypotheses:
  Krill oil decreases effusion size by 20% over 24 weeks in patients with symptomatic
  osteoarthritis of the knee and knee effusion.
  Krill oil improves knee pain over 4, 8, 12, 16, and 20 weeks in patients with clinical knee OA
  and effusion.
  Significance and Innovation: If krill oil can both improve symptoms and decrease effusion in
  OA it has the potential to slow progression to joint replacement. The proposed study represents
  an innovative approach to this and lends itself to easy implementation as krill oil is already
  available over–the–counter in Australian pharmacies.



Background
Osteoarthritis (OA) is one of the leading causes of disability globally. In Australia, OA affects over
1.9 million people (8.6% of the population – 2012 estimates), with health expenditure of $3.75
billion in 20121. The majority of the cost is hip and knee replacements1, 2, with over 40,000 of these
procedures performed in 2006–07, each costing an average of $15,000–$30,0002.
Despite its large disease burden, there are currently no approved disease–modifying drugs available
which modify structural progression of OA. Current treatments focus on alleviating pain, which is
important because patients rank pain control as their highest treatment priority3. Despite this, pain
control remains poor in 50% of patients4. Therefore, there is a significant gap between the level of
pain relief patients want, and what they actually get. Lack of treatment efficacy may be partly due
to treating everyone with OA as if they have the same pathological process.
Modern approaches to OA involve targeting specific disease pathways
OA is now considered to be a collection of different disease pathways that result in a common
outcome5, 6, rather than one disease with a common pathway. There are many sources of pain, and
many factors associated with loss of cartilage (Table 1)7, and thereby progression of disease. Our
approach is that targeting specific sources of pain and structural damage is likely to improve
outcomes in individual patients. We have successfully used this approach, targeting bone marrow
lesions, where we produced the first evidence of a treatment that had a larger effect on pain and

Protocol number: KARAOKE trial, version 02 February 2016                                   Page 2
