Research Proposal:                                         Application ID: APP1102732
                                                           CIA Surname: Jones

Statistics
Linear regression will be used to compare changes in pain, maximal effusion size and function in
univariate and multivariable modelling (if groups are not well matched at baseline) between groups
using intention to treat analysis for all outcomes. Per protocol analyses will be completed for study
participants consuming ≥80% of capsules. Significance will be p < 0.05 (two tailed). Missing data
will be accounted for by using propensity weighting, as appropriate.
Power calculations
Based on in–house data from the 4Jointz trial44, assuming 10mm difference between krill oil and
placebo on the VAS pain scale (reduction in VAS pain scores in the placebo group by -15.5±25.5
mm over 12 weeks), 90% power, and 5% probability of type 1 error (alpha=0.05), we will need 234
participants. Adjusting for 10% loss to follow up, we need 260 participants (130 in each arm).
While studies suggest that a 15 mm difference between groups is clinically meaningful,49 for a
natural therapy which has a better safety profile than pharmaceutical products, lower benefits are
also likely to be worthwhile.
Based on data from TASOAC, this will give us 96% power to detect a difference in effusion size of
20% (mean 2.24cm2, SD of change 1.35). What is clinically significant has not been defined, but
we will investigate associations between change in effusion size and change in pain in this trial. We
expect to see a natural fluctuation in knee effusion, but this effect is likely to be similar in
intervention and treatment groups. Any differences in effusion size between treatment vs placebo
groups can then be explained by the treatment, if the randomisation has worked as planned.
If we use data from the pilot study34, assuming a 20% relative difference in WOMAC scores
between groups and 90% power, and 5% probability of type 1 error (alpha=0.05), we will need a
total of n=54 participants over 4 weeks. However, we believe these figures are overly optimistic, as
participants in this trial were required to cease NSAIDs, and the trial had a number of potential
biases. We propose to conduct an add–on trial to usual practice rather than treatment cessation, as
this reflects the real world more accurately.
Timelines
                                                              2016          2017         2018
  Ethics and study set-up
  Recruitment, screening, and initiation of krill oil
  12 week clinic (pain, function, safety, new capsules)
  24 week visit for MRI scan, pain and function
  Analysis and write up
Outcomes and significance
OA is a major public health problem that is poorly managed, leaving patients in pain while the
disease progresses. Krill oil is cheap and safe, and already widely available in Australia. It appears
to successfully treat localised inflammation; therefore, it has excellent prospects for treating an
inflammatory subtype of knee OA. If this trial is positive, there will be compelling evidence that
krill oil will improve pain and function, change disease trajectory and slow disease progression, in a
field that currently has no approved therapies for slowing disease progression, which will be easily
translatable into clinical practice.




Protocol number: KARAOKE trial, version 02 February 2016                                 Page 12
