Research Proposal:                                         Application ID: APP1102732
                                                           CIA Surname: Jones


Outcome measures
During the 24 week study, there will be 4 study visits (screening, baseline / week 0, weeks 12, 24) –
see Table 2. Additional questionnaires will occur at weeks 4, 8, 16 and 20. MRI’s will occur at
screening, and week 24. Knee X–ray will occur only at screening, for classification purposes.
1. Primary outcome: Pain
Pain and function will be assessed at each time point using a 100mm visual analogue scale (VAS)
and asked “On this line, how would you rate your pain today”? We will also assess pain and
function using WOMAC37.
2. MRI measure of change in effusion size
An MRI scan of the “study” knee will be performed (screening, week 24). Knees will be imaged in
the sagittal plane on a 1.5T whole-body magnetic resonance unit (GE-Signa) using a dedicated 8–
channel knee coil, using a proton density–weighted fat saturation 2-dimensional (2-D) fast spin
echo sequence (T2). Effusions are defined as the presence of intra–articular fluid–equivalent signal
on T2 MRI sequences. These will be measured using software cursors.
Effusion size in each of 4 regions of interest (ROI; suprapatellar pouch, central portion, posterior
femoral recess, subpopliteal recess) will be summed together for each slice. The greatest score for
the sum of the four ROI (mm2) will be used as maximal effusion. Intra–observer repeatability for
this measurement method is excellent, with an ICC of 0.81. This is superior to an ordinal measure
of effusion–synovitis size, with kappa 0.63–0.75 in different sub–regions [in-house data].
Effusion volume will be measured in a similar way but with volumes for each slice summed over
the whole joint. Change in effusion–synovitis volume and area is calculated by subtracting baseline
values from follow–up maximal values.
Differentiating effusions from synovitis on MR images requires administration of a contrast agent
(gadolinium), which may cause nephrotoxicity. While this is rare, we do not consider the benefits
of such differentiation between synovitis and effusion justifies the risk to our study participants.
Other explanatory measures
3. Radiographic OA
A standing anteroposterior semiflexed radiograph of the ‘study knee’ will be performed at
screening. X-rays will be scored for joint space narrowing and osteophytes on a four point scale (0–
3) using the OARSI atlas36. In our hands this method has very high reproducibility with an ICC of
0.98 for joint space narrowing and 0.99 for osteophytes38.
4. Bone marrow lesions present on MRI
BMLs will be assessed on the MRI scans, and defined as an ill–defined hyperintensity in the
subchondral bone. One trained observer will score lesions on all MRIs at each time point; they will
be blinded to treatment allocation and clinical data. The maximum size of the lesion will be
measured in mm2 using software cursors applied to the greatest area of each lesion, as previously
described8, 39. Intraobserver repeatability for this measurement method is excellent, with ICC of
0.9739.
5. Ultrasound parameters
Presence and depth of effusion, synovitis score, presence of synovial hypertrophy and synovial
power Doppler signal at the suprapatellar pouch (SPP), lateral and medial para patellar pouches will
be assessed. There is very limited data on ultrasound parameters vs MRI in knee OA, therefore this
data will add to the field.
6. Blood markers: Inflammation, lipids, glucose
Markers of systemic inflammation, including hsCRP, IL–6 and TNF–α, cholesterol (HDL, LDL),
and fatty acids will be assessed using standard assays, from blood samples taken at screening, week
12 and week 24. Changes in hsCRP levels should be detectable within 7 days of krill oil

Protocol number: KARAOKE trial, version 02 February 2016                                  Page 8
