Research Proposal:                                          Application ID: APP1102732
                                                            CIA Surname: Jones
12. Change in blood glucose, 12 and 24 weeks.
13. Leg strength, as measured by dynamometer, 12 and 24 weeks.
14. Analgesic use, all time points.
15. Quality of life (AQoL), all time points, 12 and 24 weeks.
16. Pressure pain threshold testing (PPT) on study knee, 24 weeks
17. Adverse events, 12 and 24 weeks.
18. Cost data, (time points TBA)
Study participants
We will recruit 260 participants from five centres (Hobart, Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide and Perth)
with significant knee pain and presence of MRI defined effusion–synovitis. We will use a proven
strategy, including collaboration with general practitioners, specialist rheumatologists, orthopaedic
surgeons, and advertising through TV, newspaper and social media. This is the approach we have
taken to successfully recruit participants for large community–based trials across a range of
musculoskeletal conditions.
Inclusion criteria
1. Aged over 40 years old.
2. Men and women with significant knee pain on most days (defined as a VAS >40mm).
3. Knee effusion–synovitis on MRI: In TASOAC the proportion of participants who had effusion–
   synovitis on MRI was high (67%), suggesting that localised knee inflammation is common, and
   that MRI is an appropriate screening tool.
4. Meet American College of Rheumatology (ACR) clinical criteria for knee OA confirmed by a
   rheumatologist.
Exclusion criteria
1. Inability to have an MRI (claustrophobia, metal in eyes).
2. Severe knee OA (joint space narrowing (JSN) on X-ray of Grade 3 using the Osteoarthritis
    Research Society International (OARSI) atlas36).
3. Use of anticoagulants, high dose aspirin or non-steroidal anti–inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), as
    krill oil is contra–indicated in such people.
4. Unwillingness to stop taking krill oil and fish oil medications during the trial.
5. High dietary fish intake (≥1 fish / seafood meal each week)
6. Other forms of inflammatory arthritis (especially rheumatoid arthritis and gout).
7. Seafood allergy.
8. Significant knee injury within the last 6 months.
9. Arthroscopy or open surgery in the index knee in the last 12 months, or planned.
10. Injections of corticosteroids (last 3 months) or hyaluronic acid (last 6 months) in the index knee.
11. Pregnancy or breastfeeding.
12. Use of any investigational drug(s) and/or devices within 30 days prior to randomisation
13. Presence of any serious medical illness that may preclude 24 week follow up.
14. Inability to provide informed consent.
Treatment
Eligible participants will receive two capsules of krill oil or inert identical placebo daily for 24
weeks. Allocation of participants to active or placebo will be based on computer generated random
numbers, by site, using adaptive allocation. Allocation concealment will be ensured by using
identical capsules, created for us by a compounding pharmacy. Use of a centralised, secure
allocation procedure will ensure allocation data cannot be accessed or influenced by any person.




Protocol number: KARAOKE trial, version 02 February 2016                                  Page 7
