Research Proposal:                                         Application ID: APP1102732
                                                           CIA Surname: Jones
Like hsCRP, inflamed synovia and/or effusions are important because they predict pain16-19,
especially non-weight bearing knee pain19. Importantly, such associations are localised20, with
effusions having independent compartment–specific associations with knee pain19. Our pilot data
from the TASOAC study shows that this is common, affecting 67% of randomly selected
participants aged ≥50 in Hobart21, including 22% with large effusions (effusion–synovitis score ≥3).
Our data demonstrates that having effusion–synovitis at baseline was more common amongst those
who went on to develop new knee pain, or whose pain worsened over 2.6 years [to be presented as
an oral presentation at Osteoarthritis Research Society International, Seattle, 2015]. Having
effusion–synovitis in three of the four anatomic regions in the knee was associated with presence of
non–weight bearing pain (Figure 2); and the proportion of study participants with increased knee
pain over time was larger in those with larger areas of size of effusion–synovitis on MRI scans
(Figure 3). Links between synovial inflammation and knee structural changes are a vicious cycle,
with synovial inflammation causing knee structural changes22, and knee structural changes causing
synovial inflammation22, 23.




Figure 2: Associations between knee effusion-      Figure 3: Associations between knee
synovitis in different subregions and increases in effusion-synovitis in different subregions and
total knee pain over 2.6 years in the TASOAC study increases in total knee pain over 2.6 years in
[unpublished data].                                the TASOAC study [unpublished data]

Therefore, effusion–synovitis is associated with increased knee pain over time in a dose–response,
compartment–specific, manner, and represents localised inflammation. Stopping the cascade of
inflammation is likely to slow down deleterious changes in knee structure.
Effusions / synovitis predict cartilage loss and joint replacement; therefore, treating these may
slow disease progression
Data from our centre (Menzies, Hobart – TASOAC study) recently published in the top journal of
the field also demonstrates that effusion–synovitis in the suprapatellar pouch predicts cartilage
defects, bone marrow lesions (BMLs) and increased cartilage loss over 2.6 years 21 (See Figure 4).
This is consistent with data from arthoscopy22, and with other longitudinal data that demonstrates
that effusion predicts joint replacement24. Thus, reversing inflammation has the potential to
improve outcomes globally in knee OA.
High levels of inflammation in OA can be treated, but existing options have side effects
A recent RCT in knee OA demonstrated that elevated levels of systemic inflammation can be
modified25, with oral low-dose prednisolone reducing hsCRP in people with elevated hsCRP and
clinical synovitis by as early as 6 weeks. However, prednisolone is associated with a well–
characterised suite of adverse events in the short and long term, and therefore such treatments are
not feasible for all people with OA and systemic inflammation. Inflammation can also be reduced
using treatment with biological therapy e.g. adalimumab, but these therapies are expensive, and
have too many side effects for widespread use. Cyclooxygenase inhibitors e.g. Celebrex are
labelled non–steroidal anti–inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), yet do not change CRP levels26, casting


Protocol number: KARAOKE trial, version 02 February 2016                                Page 4
