Research Proposal:                                          Application ID: APP1102732
                                                            CIA Surname: Jones
doubt on their ability to influence inflammation. Therefore, high hsCRP levels are amenable to
change, but safer treatments for reducing inflammation are needed.




Figure 4: Associations between joint effusion–synovitis in the suprapatellar pouch and (a) cartilage
defects (b) cartilage volume (c) bone marrow lesions over 2.6 years. 21

Fish oil reduces systemic inflammation in rheumatoid arthritis but not osteoarthritis
Fish oil has been successfully used for treating rheumatoid arthritis (RA) since the early 1990’s.
The omega-3 fatty acids, eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) can
suppress synthesis of the omega–6 pro–inflammatory eicosanoids, prostaglandin E; and leukotriene
B427. Overall, RCT’s in RA demonstrate that fish oil reduces pain, morning stiffness, number of
painful and/or tender joints and NSAID consumption28; and is an effective add–on therapy to
standard RA therapies, reducing risk of treatment failure and increasing rate of remission29.
Therefore, fish oil is an effective treatment for RA.
However, data on efficacy of fish oil in OA is limited. Our Network conducted a 24–month RCT of
high dose fish oil vs low dose fish oil / canola oil in participants with knee OA (CIC Hill, Annals of
the Rheumatic Diseases, under revision). Intensity of knee OA symptoms reduced more in the low
dose group at 24 months; suggesting that fish oil is ineffective for OA, but canola oil may be
effective.
Krill oil is a better alternative for osteoarthritis than fish oil
Krill oil, which is extracted from Antarctic Krill (Ephausia Superba, a zooplankton crustacean) has
emerged on the market in recent years. Like fish oil, it is high in EPA and DHA30, although the
chemical structures of the fatty acids differ (phospholipids, rather than triacylglycerol or fatty acid
ethyl esters); but unlike fish oil, it also naturally contains antioxidants (predominantly
astaxanthin30). Additionally, bioavailability of krill oil is better than fish oil, as comparable
amounts of EPA and DHA are obtained from lower doses of krill oil compared to fish oil31.
In animal studies, krill oil supplementation had larger effects on most clinical outcomes than fish
oil32 while krill oil reduced the severity of inflammatory arthritis in mice by 50% compared to
controls32. In mice transgenic for human TNF–α, both fish and krill oil improved plasma
cholesterol levels, but only krill oil had additional beneficial effects on markers of fatty acid
oxidation33. Therefore bioavailability data and animal studies suggest that krill oil has anti-
inflammatory and anti-oxidative effects, and may be a better treatment in vivo than fish oil.
Pilot data in humans: Deutsch et al34
Only one RCT has assessed the effect of krill oil on inflammation and arthritis symptoms34. This
RCT included 90 participants aged 30–75 with cardiovascular disease, RA or OA, and raised CRP
levels. Participants treated with 300mg krill oil over 30 days had less pain on the Western Ontario
and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC) pain scale (change scores -38.35±21.06
[krill oil] vs -0.6±15.89 [placebo], p=0.01), and reductions in CRP levels over 30 days (-30.9% ±1.0
vs +25.1%±1.05, p=0.008), compared to placebo. Similar effects were observed with stiffness and
functional impairment scores. These results demonstrate that krill oil begins to work by 4 weeks,

Protocol number: KARAOKE trial, version 02 February 2016                                   Page 5
