Research Proposal:                                               Application ID: APP1102732
                                                                 CIA Surname: Jones
modified structure8. This Phase II trial has been followed by a multicentre trial testing this approach
for cartilage loss and joint replacement (NHMRC Grant 1045415 CIA Jones). As well as bone,
inflammation is a strong target in OA.
Table 1: Associations between knee structural factors, pain and cartilage loss7
  Factor                                          Independently        Associated with
                                                  associated with pain cartilage loss
  Obesity, muscle strength, bone marrow           Yes                  Yes
  lesions (BMLs), cartilage defects, meniscal
  tears, meniscal extrusions, effusion, synovitis
  Tibial bone size, cartilage volume              No                   Yes
  Subchondral bone mass                           No                   Yesa
  Anterior cruciate ligament tear                 Controversial        Yes
  Osteophyte                                      Yesb                 Yes
a                         b
 Cartilage defects only; not independent of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) changes when
examined in the same study
Inflammation is an important factor in knee pain and knee OA pathogenesis
1. Systemic inflammation is associated with knee pain and predicts progression in OA
OA is generally thought of as a ‘non-inflammatory’ type of arthritis; however, localised low-grade
inflammation is now known to be an important factor in OA pathogenesis. Pro–inflammatory
cytokines, including interleukin (IL)–1β, tumour necrosis factor–α (TNF– α) , and IL–6 are
produced by synovium and chondrocytes, and contribute to the progression of cartilage
degradation9. The inflammatory pattern is observed both early10 and late9 in the disease process.
This local inflammation can be observed systemically using assays for high sensitive C reactive
protein (hsCRP), as hsCRP levels are positively correlated with the degree of synovial
inflammatory infiltration in OA11. A meta-analysis from our centre demonstrated that hsCRP levels
are modestly, but significantly, elevated in persons with OA compared to controls12. Importantly,
hsCRP levels are associated with both symptoms and disease markers, with higher hsCRP levels
associated with greater pain (in both this meta–analysis12, and longitudinal data from our centre12,
13
   ), decreased physical function12, decreased cartilage volume14 and disease progression10, 15.
Therefore, systemic inflammation predicts both pain and structural outcomes in OA.
2. Local inflammation (effusion–synovitis) is associated with pain and predicts progression of OA
Effusion (excess synovial fluid within the joint space) and /or synovitis (thickening of the
synovium), represent localised inflammation within the knee joint. This can be visualised using
magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), a highly sensitive method of detecting and measuring knee
structural abnormalities. Effusion–synovitis is seen on T2 MRI as increased signal intensity in the
joint spaces (see Figure 1).
                                                                             Figure 1: Example of
                                                                             changes in effusion-
                                                                             synovitis area (cm2).
                                                                             Effusion-synovitis size
                                                                             decreased from baseline to
                                                                             follow-up 2.6 years later
                                                                             (A-B)
                                                                             Effusion / synovitis are
                                                                             present in both the
                                                                             suprapatellar pouch and
                                                                             central portion. Overall,
                                                                             effusion size is smaller at
                                                                             follow–up MRI.
           Baseline                            2.6 years later

Protocol number: KARAOKE trial, version 02 February 2016                                      Page 3
