Research Proposal:                                         Application ID: APP1102732
                                                           CIA Surname: Jones
and potentially as early as 14 days. This suggests that krill oil reduces knee pain and systemic
inflammation, within 2-4 weeks. No adverse events were reported.
The Deutch et al.34 trial is an important proof of principle study. It demonstrates improvements in
pain, stiffness, functional impairment, and systemic inflammation. However, there were
limitations.
1. The follow up period was short (30 days).
2. No imaging data was collected; therefore, effect of krill oil on structural changes is unknown.
3. The study population was a mixture of people with disorders that increase systemic
   inflammation (cardiovascular disease, RA and OA), and no subgroup results were described.
   There were numerous exclusion criteria that were not justified by contra–indications to krill oil,
   including any concurrent medical condition or concomitant treatments, limiting the
   generalisability of the study findings.
4. Adverse events were poorly documented.
5. The study was not independent, being funded by a pharmaceutical company.
6. The dose of krill oil used in this trial (300mg/day) is much lower than that currently available
   over-the-counter in Australia (and hence used by consumers), as well as being much lower than
   the dose recommended by experts as being truly anti-inflammatory (2-3 g/day) (personal
   communication, Trygve Bergeland, Aker Biomarine).

Therefore, we plan to conduct a six month RCT of krill oil 2g/day (vs placebo) to assess the effect
on knee pain and size of knee effusions in people with at least moderate knee pain and knee
effusions on MRI. This will target an inflammatory subtype of OA with a treatment that has been
shown to have anti–inflammatory effects.
This is the first trial to measure change in effusion–synovitis; therefore this approach is cutting
edge. Measurement of these features is now possible due to advances in MRI technology and the
expertise of our Network.
Research Plan
Study aim
To compare, using a randomised, placebo–controlled double–blind design over six months, the
effect of 2g krill oil daily compared to identical placebo, on knee pain (primary outcome) and also
MRI–detected knee effusion in 260 participants with clinical knee OA, significant knee pain and
effusions on imaging.
Study design
Multi–centre randomised, placebo–controlled double blind clinical trial.
Primary outcome
Change in knee pain (assessed by visual analog score (VAS)) over 24 weeks.
Secondary outcomes
1. Change in maximal area and volume of knee effusion–synovitis, 24 weeks.
2. Change in ordinal measures of knee effusion, 24 weeks.
3. Change in BML maximal area, 24 weeks.
4. Change in ultrasound parameters, 24 weeks
5. Change in knee pain (VAS score), other time points (4, 8, 12, 16, 20 weeks).
6. Change in knee pain (total WOMAC pain, weight bearing and non–weight bearing pain), all
    time points.
7. Change in hand and back pain (VAS), all time points.
8. Change in knee function, all time points.
9. OMERACT–OARSI responder criteria35, all time points.
10. Change in hsCRP, 12 and 24 weeks.
11. Change in blood lipids, 12 and 24 weeks.

Protocol number: KARAOKE trial, version 02 February 2016                                 Page 6
