CALGB 70807

run-in and consumed fewer than 6 servings of fruits and vegetables (not including juices)
per day will then be randomized.
After randomization, all patients will participate in a 5-10 minute telephone orientation
conducted by staff from the Moores UCSD Cancer Center explaining the randomization
results and the next study-related events. The orientation call for intervention
participants randomized to Arm A will briefly explain the counseling program, the dietary
targets, and the scientific rationale supporting these targets. The UCSD study staff will
mail all participants (Arm A and Arm B) a copy of the Prostate Cancer Foundation Booklet
entitled “Nutrition, Exercise and Prostate Cancer.” In addition, participants randomized to
the counseling intervention (Arm A) will also be mailed a copy of the study-specific
“Lifestyle Intervention Manual” which will be referred to during every counseling call. The
manual outlines the dietary targets, offers supporting information on strategies to achieve
these targets, supplies reference tools to help participants accurately estimate servings of
target foods, and offers recipes and articles about diet and prostate cancer.
All counseling will be performed by telephone from the Moores UCSD Cancer Center
using a counseling program and infrastructure of personnel developed during the WHEL
(68) and MEAL (40, 42) studies. The protocol will follow a step-wise, phased approach
employing strategies adopted from social cognitive theory. Motivational interviewing
techniques will be utilized to help patients maintain responsibility for their own behavior
change.
Each participant in Arm A will be assigned to D SHUVRQDO FRXQVHORUFRDFK LI WKH
participant has a spouse or significant other, the counselor/coach will also seek to enlist
his or her cooperation and support. Counselors will work morning, afternoon, or evening
shifts, and every effort will be made to assign participants to a counselor working when
they prefer to receive calls. Call length will range from 20-40 minutes. Calls will be more
frequent and of longer duration during the early phases of counseling.
Educational materials will be sent to patients on a schedule that supports the
behavioral intervention goals.
The Lifestyle Intervention Manual that patients enrolled to Arm A receive will include
background material on dietary targets, as well as monitoring forms that patients can use
to monitor their dietary change.
Newsletters: In order to maintain participant morale, UCSD staff will develop eight
newsletters for participants on both arms of the study. Each newsletter will be four pages
and will contain information about diet and healthy lifestyle, as well as diet and cancer.
Recipes will also be included in these newsletters. The content of the first three pages of
the newsletters will be nearly identical. The fourth page of the newsletters, which will
provide recipes to participants, will vary by group.
These newsletters will be distributed to participants by participating sites every three
months (quarterly). Electronic versions of the newsletters will be made available on the
Alliance and the CTSU Web sites. Institutions must receive IRB approval of these
newsletters prior to their distribution to patients. Care should be taken to ensure that
patients receive the newsletter tailored to the arm to which they are randomized.

Version Date 09/26/18

Update #10
25

