CALGB 70807

1.5

Quality of Life Among Prostate Cancer Patients
Cancer patients often report significant anxiety about their disease. Several investigators
have documented fear of recurrence to be highly prevalent in a number of different cancer
patient populations (47-50). Cancer survivors may experience lingering psychological
sequelae, including fear of diagnostic tests and fear of recurrence for long periods of time
after diagnosis and treatment (53).
Prostate cancer patients are not immune to worry over their disease (5, 44-46, 52, 53).
However, treatment may also diminish fear of recurrence. Among prostate cancer patients
undergoing definitive treatment, fear of recurrence peaked prior to treatment, then
decreased within 6 months after treatment (52). A possible explanation for this finding is
that patients were reassured about their prognosis after having undergone treatment.
Providing prostate cancer patients the opportunity to exert control over a change in their
dietary intake, a diet-based intervention may perhaps help patients overcome fear of
recurrence, particularly if the intervention stabilizes PSA.
Part of the impact of a diet change program may involve social cognitive theory, which
governs most current attempts to change behavior. A key element of social cognitive
theory is self-efficacy. According to social cognitive theory, the interaction of the
individual with the environment is influenced by his or her cognitions and beliefs about
ability, expectation of behavioral outcomes, and evaluation and modification of behavior
toward specific goals (54). Components of social cognitive theory include self-efficacy
(confidence in ability to perform a particular behavior to accomplish a specific goal),
outcome expectancies (belief that a particular behavior will result in a particular
consequence), and self-regulation (adopting personal standards for behavior, appraising
behavior against such standards, and creating incentives that motivate and guide
behavior). Participating in diet change, as in this study, may increase patient feelings of
self-efficacy, defined as their “judgments of their capabilities to organize and execute
courses of action required to attain designated types of performance (55-57).” According
to Bandura (56), mastery experiences are the most reliable source of efficacy information.
Applied to this study, feelings of greater self-efficacy will increase patients’ ability to
control their diet and consequently their health. Identifying and reinforcing patients’
present success is a factor that Bandura (54, 56), and Strecher and colleagues (58)
suggest clinicians use to improve self-efficacy. Building a sense of self-efficacy is part of
the MEAL program. Self-efficacy has been incorporated into various interventions: selfmanagement interventions and educational programs in patients with chronic disease
(61) and prostate cancer (57). Breast and colon cancer patients randomized to either an
educational or nutritional intervention arm had significantly fewer depressive symptoms
and better physical functioning than patients in the control group, primarily accounted
for by self-efficacy (60). Cancer patients with greater self-efficacy have been found to be
better adjusted and have a better overall quality of life (55, 57-59).
We expect that participating in the MEAL intervention will improve the quality of life for
low risk prostate cancer patients. The literature is largely supportive, indicating that this
intervention’s focus on self-efficacy will add measurably to quality of life (56-63). One of
the implicit messages that participants take from being in this study will be that low risk
prostate cancer is a condition to monitor, but neither a death sentence nor a condition
that requires radical, immediate, life-changing intervention. We will not be able to
compare trial participants to non-participants. We will, however, be able to compare those
randomized to the diet change to those randomized to the comparison group.
Low risk prostate cancer is a substantial public health issue that affects tens of
thousands of men each year in the US. Epidemiologic, pre-clinical, and preliminary
clinical studies suggest that diet is related to prostate cancer risk, so that changing to a
high-vegetable diet may decrease prostate cancer progression in lower risk patients.
Clearly, mature clinical data on use of diet to treat prostate cancer are lacking. We have
developed a novel, practical, telephone-based intervention that has been shown to
increase vegetable intake and serum carotenoid levels in men with prostate cancer. We
propose to document the impact of this dietary intervention in an extended clinical trial
uVLQJ SURVWDWH FDQFHU SDWLHQWV XQGHU $6 IRU VXFK SDWLHQWV WKH OLNHOLKRRG RI WUHDWPHQW

Version Date 09/26/18

Update #10
8

