CALGB 70807

PFS will be regressed on each biomarker of proliferation (KI-67), apoptosis (cleaved
caspase 3) and tumor growth rate (a composite of proliferation and apoptosis) using
a Cox regression model. In order to see which biomarkers are independently
prognostic, we will also perform a Cox regression to regress PFS on all three of the
biomarkers. We will repeat these regression analyses adjusting for treatment
allocation to investigate if the effect of these biomarkers is confounded with
treatment allocation.
10.4.4.2 To compare proliferation, apoptosis and tumor growth index to outcome
predictors among AS patients randomized to dietary intervention as opposed
to those assigned to the comparison group
The analyses adjusting for treatment allocation as described in in Section 10.4.4.1
will be repeated by adding the interaction term between each marker and treatment
allocation to the regression models to see if the effect of each biomarker is different
between the two treatment arms. If any of these interaction terms are significant,
then we will also fit a regression model within each arm to develop a prediction
model based on the biomarkers for each treatment arm.
10.4.4.3 To compare protein levels of the androgen receptor and 5-alpha
reductase 1, 2, and 3 to dietary intervention assignment as predictors of
cancer progression in AS patients
PFS will be regressed on each biomarker of androgen receptor, 5 alpha reductase 1,
5 alpha reductase 2, and 5 alpha reductase 3 using a Cox regression model. In
order to see which of these protein level biomarkers are independently prognostic,
we will also perform a Cox regression to regress PFS on all four of these biomarkers.
We will repeat these regression analyses adjusting for treatment allocation to
investigate if the effect of the biomarkers is confounded with treatment allocation.
10.4.4.4 To compare protein levels of the androgen receptor and 5-alpha
reductase 1, 2, and 3 as outcome predictors among AS patients randomized to
dietary intervention as opposed to those assigned to the comparison group
The analyses adjusting for treatment allocation as described in in Section 10.4.4.3
will be repeated by adding the interaction term between each marker and treatment
allocation to the regression models to see if the effect of each biomarker is different
between the two treatment arms. If any interaction terms are significant, then we
will fit a regression model within each arm to develop a prediction model based on
the biomarkers for each treatment arm.
10.4.4.5 To compare expression of microRNAs 141 and 375 to dietary
intervention assignment as predictors of cancer progression in AS patients
PFS will be regressed on each biomarker of microRNAs 141 and 375 using a Cox
regression model. In order to see which of these microRNAs are independently
prognostic, we will also perform a Cox regression to regress PFS on both of the
microRNAs. We will repeat these regression analyses adjusting for treatment
allocation to investigate if the effect of these biomarkers is confounded with
treatment allocation.
The microRNA package we are going to use will examine many more (~200)
microRNA biomarkers. We will develop a prediction model for PFS using all the
examined microRNA biomarkers as candidate predictors using the gradient lasso
procedure,113 and compare the prediction power of this model with that based on
microRNAs 141 and 375. A Cox regression will be conducted including the risk
score fitted using the gradient lasso method and treatment allocation.
10.4.4.6 To compare expression of microRNAs 141 and 375 as outcome
predictors among AS patients randomized to dietary intervention as opposed
to those assigned to the comparison group
The analyses adjusting for treatment allocation as described in Section 10.4.4.5 will
be repeated by adding the interaction term between each biomarker and treatment
allocation to the regression models to see if the effect of each biomarker is different
Version Date 09/26/18

Update #10
37

