CALGB 70807

1.0

INTRODUCTION
1.1

Prostate Cancer: The Concept of Overtreatment
Prostate cancer is the most commonly diagnosed non-cutaneous cancer among US men.
Approximately 192,000 new cases were identified in 2009 (1). Although prostate cancer is
the second leading cause of cancer death among US men, the probability of dying from
prostate cancer is relatively low. The lifetime risk of prostate cancer diagnosis is 16%, but
the lifetime risk of death from prostate cancer is only 3% (1). This discrepancy between
prostate cancer incidence and mortality, due in large part to detection of pre-symptomatic
tumors by the prostate-specific antigen (PSA) assay, is distinct among cancers. As a
result of widespread PSA testing, 50% of newly diagnosed prostate cancer patients now
present with localized, lower-risk disease (2).
Most patients with lower-risk prostate cancer are treated with surgery or radiation (3).
Although the probability of cure with these modalities is high, both are associated with
urinary, bowel, and sexual morbidities that significantly diminish quality of life (4, 5).
Moreover, despite the high probability that these men will remain disease-free, whether
the treatments actually reduce prostate cancer-specific or overall mortality in lower-risk
patients is not known. Many men with localized, higher-risk prostate cancer have
DJJUHVVLYHGLVHDVHWKDWZDUUDQWVDJJUHVVLYHLQWHUYHQWLRQ  PDQ\RWKHUVZLWKORZHU-risk,
generally indolent prostate cancer, even younger men likely to live 15 years or more from
diagnosis, derive few, if any, survival benefits from treatment (7-10).
Population studies suggest that a substantial proportion of men diagnosed with lowerrisk prostate cancer in the US are over-treated (2-4). In a recent study of the US SEER
registry, Miller and colleagues concluded that approximately 50% of men with lower-risk
prostate cancer received unnecessarily aggressive treatment, surgery or radiation (4). The
staggering scope of this public health problem that is, unnecessarily aggressive treatment
of lower risk prostate cancer, treatment that diminishes quality of life for tens of
thousands of US men each year, challenges us to develop innovative therapeutic and
diagnostic models to refine treatment paradigms within this patient population.

1.2

Active Surveillance (AS) for Lower-Risk Prostate Cancer
The concept that substantial proportions of men diagnosed with lower-risk prostate
cancer are over-treated has fostered growing interest in a management approach known
as active surveillance (AS). AS entails vigilant monitoring of men with localized, lower-risk
prostate cancer by serial PSA measurements, frequent digital rectal examinations, and
intermittent prostate biopsies. Intervention with surgery, radiation, or other therapies is
reserved until patients show evidence of disease progression (9,11-16).
Active surveillance protocols for identification of patients with lower-risk disease vary by
institution, but are generally similar. Clinical criteria for enrollment in a surveillance
program typically include total PSA < 10 ng/mL, tumor that is non-palpable, or palpable
but small on digital rectal examination (clinical stage T1 or T2) and lower-risk tumor
characteristics on prostate biopsy, namely, low-JUDGH *OHDVRQVXP” DQGORZ-volume
(tumor evident only in a small number and percentage of biopsy cores) disease (9,11-16).
Similarly, while there remains no clinical consensus, disease progression while on
surveillance is broadly defined as a rapidly increasing PSA (manifested as decreased PSA
doubling time or increased PSA velocity) or worrisome pathology on repeat biopsy
*OHDVRQVFRUH•RULQFUHDVHGWXPRUYROXPH  -16).
In carefully selected men with lower-risk prostate cancer, AS is a viable and safe
treatment option. Warlick and colleagues, confirming earlier results (9), observed that
patients followed on AS for up to 6 years who then progressed by PSA or pathological
criteria and underwent surgery were just as likely to be cured of their disease as men who
underwent surgery immediately after diagnosis (14).
Approximately 30% of patients on AS will progress based on current PSA or pathological
criteria and thus receive intervention with surgery or radiation, typically within 2 years of
beginning surveillance (11). The Hopkins data indicate that 31% of patients progress

Version Date 09/26/18

Update #10
5

