CALGB 70807

In addition, submission of plasma samples for carotenoid and cholesterol analyses is
required for all patients registered to this study. Rationale and methods for the scientific
components of these studies are described in Section 10.1.
Finally, all participating institutions must ask patients for their consent for the use of
serum, whole blood, and unstained slides for the additional carotenoid and polymorphism
analyses described in Sections 10.2, 10.3, and 10.4 (sub-study CALGB 151105).
Submit slides and blood samples as described below.
Pre-registration*

12 months**

24 months**

Ship to:

Required for all patients registered to 70807
H&E slides

X

Plasma
(Green top)

1 x 10 mL

1 x 10 mL

X

OSU

1 x 10 mL

OSU

Required for patients registered to 70807 and
substudy 151105
Serum
(Red top)

1 x 10 mL

Whole blood
(Lavender top)

1 x 10 mL

OSU

X

OSU

Unstained
slides

1 x 10 mL

1 x 10 mL

OSU

•

Pre-registration samples should be submitted within two weeks after the patient has been
registered and randomized to the study H[FHSW ZKROH EORRG VDPSOHV ZKLFK VKRXOG EH
submitted on the same day as collection. If the patient does not complete the run-in, or is not
registered/randomized to the study for any other reason, samples collected at pre-registration
should be destroyed per institutional practice. The whole blood sample submitted at preregistration will be destroyed by staff at the Alliance Biorepository at OSU.

**

Blood samples should be collected and submitted regardless of whether the patient has
progressed or elected to receive therapy. H & E slides at the 24-month time point are not
required for patients who have started definitive treatment (e.g., prostatectomy or radiation
therapy).

USE OF THE ALLIANCE BIOSPECIMEN MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (BioMS) IS
MANDATORY AND ALL SPECIMENS MUST BE LOGGED AND SHIPPED VIA THIS
SYSTEM.
BioMS is a web-based system for logging and tracking all biospecimens collected on
Alliance trials.
Authorized individuals may access BioMS at the following URL:
http://bioms.allianceforclinicaltrialsinoncology.org using most standard web browsers
(Safari, Firefox, Internet Explorer). For information on using the BioMS system, please
refer to the ‘Help’ links on the BioMS web page to access the on-line user manual, FAQs,
and training videos. To report technical problems, such as login issues or application
errors, please contact: 1-855-55-BIOMS or Bioms@alliancenctn.org. For assistance in
using the application or questions or problems related to specific specimen logging, please
contact: 1-855-55-BIOMS or Bioms@alliancenctn.org.
After logging collected specimens in BioMS, the system will create a shipping manifest.
This shipping manifest must be printed and placed in the shipment container with the
specimens.
All submitted specimens must be labeled with the protocol number (70807), patient study
ID number, patient’s initials and date and type of specimen collected (e.g., serum, whole
blood). A copy of the Shipment Packing Slip produced by BioMS must be printed and
placed in the shipment with the specimens.
Version Date 09/26/18

Update #10
19

