All other subjects will be followed up to 30 days: censorship. The time will be 30 days.

This outcome will be summarized by the cumulative incidence function, with rate at 15 and 30 days
with 95% confidence intervals.

The treatments groups will be compared using the Fine and Gray model to account for competing risks.
We will also use this model to account for prognostic factors.

Proportional hazard assumption will be studied with Schoenfeld residuals and the loglinearity
hypothesis for quantitative covariate will be studied.

With the Fine and Gray model, subdistribution hazard ratio will be reported with 95% confidence
interval.

Cumulative incidence function will be draw from the non-parametric estimation or from the model.

12.1.8 Secondary outcomes analysis
Qualitative outcomes:
- will be described by numbers and percentages;
- will be tested with χ² test, corrected χ² test or Fisher test, as appropriate.
- To account for prognostic factors or for exploratory analyses we will use a logistic model.

Quantitative outcomes:
- will be described by numbers, mean, standard deviation, 95% confidence interval of the mean,
   median, range, and interquartile range;
- will be tested with the Student t-test, the Student t-test or the Mann-Whitney-Wilcoxon test, as
   appropriate
- To adjust on prognostic factors, a linear regression model will be used.

Censored outcomes:
- Mortality will be described by survival analysis with Kaplan-Meier estimation and 95% confidence
interval. Only survival analysis within 60 days will be performed. In this analysis, time to death will be
defined as the difference between the date of randomization and the date of death (whatever ECMO
weaning had occurred before or not) or the date of the last news or the end of the follow-up (60 days).
Difference between groups will be tested with the logrank test. To adjust for prognostic factors, a cox
model will be used.

12.2 Sample size calculation

We estimated the cumulative incidence of successful ECMO weaning in the control arm at 50% in the
presence of competing causes (death or weaning failure) from a 30-day cohort study of similar
patients. According to Latouche et al. [38], with HR=1.75 (subdistribution hazard ratio), an alpha risk
of 5% and a power of 80%, we need 101 events (= successful ECMO weaning) and 206 subjects in total
(103 per group).

12.3 State whether subjects who exit the study prematurely will be replaced and in what
     proportion.
No replacement is foreseen.

12.4 Anticipated level of statistical significance
All comparisons will be done with a two-sided type I error of 5%.

"LEVOECMO" protocol, version 1.1 of 04/12/2020                                                                35/45
                    This document is the property of DRCI / AP-HP. All reproduction is strictly prohibited.
                                                       Version date: April 2018
