Source PDF: jama_wijesurendra_2025_oi_250068_1760999665.28362.pdf
Source PDF page: 3
Extraction method: native PDF text

and burden. GPs managed findings at their discretion as
part of clinical care; no guidance on management of AF or
other arrhythmias was provided by AMALFI, besides refer-
encing relevant guidelines.7,14
Further details regarding the patch and its analysis are
available in the eMethods in Supplement 3.
Outcomes
The primary outcome was the proportion of participants with
the presence of AF in primary care records within 2.5 years
postrandomization, which was analyzed using an intention-
to-treat approach. Secondary outcome assessments involved
intention-to-treatcomparisonsoftheprimaryoutcomebysub-
groups of age (<80 and ≥80 years) and, separately, sex. Sen-
sitivity analyses of the primary and secondary outcomes were
performed using AF diagnoses captured in either primary or
secondary care records. Exploratory outcomes included ran-
domized assessments of time to AF detection within 2.5 years
after randomization, time spent with a known AF diagnosis up
to 2.5 years from randomization, and anticoagulation expo-
sure within 2.5 years after randomization. Other exploratory
long-term assessments included randomized comparisons of
numbers and proportions of stroke and death (all-cause and
cardiovascular) in both groups. Full details are available in the
statistical analysis plan (Supplement 2).
For a detailed description of the definition and deriva-
tion of baseline characteristics and outcomes, see the AMALFI
protocol paper.12
Statistical Analysis
Statistical analysis was conducted from May to July 2025. The
samplesizeforAMALFIwasinitiallyspecifiedas2500butlater
increased to 5000 (before any unblinded data were re-
viewed) both to increase the power of the trial overall and to
provide sufficient power to analyze the primary outcome for
subgroups of age and, separately, sex. Based on an estimated
AF detection rate over 2.5 years from randomization of 4.4%
inthepatchgroupand1.75%intheusualcaregroup(ratio,2.5),
itwasestimatedthatasamplesizeof5000wouldprovidemore
than90%powerata2-sidedP < .01andthatthislevelofpower
and significance would be maintained for a smaller 2-fold,
rather than 2.5-fold, difference in proportions. There would
be approximately 90% power at a 2-sided P < .05 to analyze
the primary outcome for subgroups of age at randomization
(with a cutoff of 80 years) and, separately, sex.
The χ2 test was used to conduct intention-to-treat com-
parisons of the primary outcome. The same method was used
in age and, separately, sex subgroups; these are reported with
a χ2 test for heterogeneity of the results between the 2 sub-
groups.IndividualswithnorecordofAFduringthistimeframe
who died, were withdrawn, or lost to follow-up from the pri-
mary care records before 2.5 years from randomization were
included with those with no record of AF. Analogous meth-
ods were used to conduct intention-to-treat comparisons of
the sensitivity analyses of the primary and secondary out-
comes (with AF diagnoses captured in either primary or sec-
ondary care records) and of the exploratory outcome of pro-
portion of participants with a record of oral anticoagulation
(capturedinnationwidecommunitypharmacydispensingrec-
ords) within 2.5 years after randomization.
Log-rank methods were used to conduct intention-to-
treat comparisons of the exploratory outcome of time to first
postrandomizationrecordofAFintheprimarycarerecord,cen-
soring at the earliest of death, withdrawal, loss to follow-up
in the primary care record, or 2.5 years. Log-rank test P val-
ues are presented, with rate ratios (RRs) used to quantify dif-
ferences between groups. RRs were obtained from the log-
rank observed −expected number of events (O −E) and its
variance (V) and calculated as exp(O −E ÷ V). Time from ur-
gent patch report to first primary care record of AF was ana-
lyzed using the same method. Exploratory outcomes of time
to first postrandomization record of oral anticoagulation,
stroke, and death were also analyzed using log-rank meth-
ods, but were not censored at loss to follow-up in the primary
care record, as outcomes were based wholly (oral anticoagu-
lation and death) or in part (stroke) on secondary care records
or nationwide community pharmacy dispensing records. As
calendar month and year but no exact dates were available in
thedispensingrecords,resultsoftheoralanticoagulationcom-
parison are presented in months rather than days from ran-
domization. Oral anticoagulation prescriptions during the
month of randomization contribute to baseline rates and not
postrandomization records, as it was not possible to deter-
mine which were truly postrandomization.
Apermutationtest15wasusedtocomparemeantimespent
with a diagnosis of AF in all those randomized to the patch
group with all those randomized to the usual care group, with
timespentwithadiagnosisofAFdefinedasthenumberofdays
fromfirstpostrandomizationAFrecordintheprimarycaredata
to 2.5 years or date of death or withdrawal (if earlier). Those
with no diagnosis of AF by this time point contributed no time
with AF and those who were lost to follow-up from the pri-
mary care record before 2.5 years were assumed to have the
same future days with AF as the average of those remaining
without AF in that treatment group at the time the person was
lost to follow-up.
A permutation test was used to compare total exposure to
oral anticoagulation by randomized treatment allocation.
A 2-sided P < .05 was considered statistically significant
for the primary outcome. Allowance for multiple hypothesis
testing was made in the interpretation of the secondary, sen-
sitivity, and exploratory outcomes but without formal adjust-
ment for the P values. Consequently, the reported 95% CIs
should not be used to infer definitive treatment effects with
regard to these outcomes.
Analyses and plotting used SAS version 9.4 (SAS Insti-
tute) and R version 4.5.0 in RStudio version 2025.05.0, build
496 (R Foundation).
Moreinformationisavailableinthestatisticalanalysisplan
(Supplement 2).
Results
From May 2019 to February 2022, 22 044 individuals were in-
vited to participate in the study, of whom 5040 (22.9%) were
Remote Screening for Asymptomatic Atrial Fibrillation
Original Investigation Research
jama.com
(Reprinted)
JAMA
October 21, 2025
Volume 334, Number 15
1351
© 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.
Downloaded from jamanetwork.com by University of Arizona Health Sciences Library user on 07/23/2026
