 PReVENT – Protective Ventilation in
  Patients without ARDS at Start of
   Ventilation: study update and
  detailed statistical analysis plan
Ary Serpa Neto MD MSc PhD,1,2,3 Fabienne D Simonis MD,1 Marcelo Gama de
 Abreu MD PhD,4 Paolo Pelosi MD FERS,5 Marcus J Schultz MD PhD;1,6,7 for
     the PReVENT investigators* and the PROVE Network investigators

         Academic Medical Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands
                        1Department of Intensive Care
  6Laboratory of Experimental Intensive Care and Anesthesiology (L·E·I·C·A)


            Hospital Israelita Albert Einstein, São Paulo, Brazil
                   2Department of Critical Care Medicine
                   3Laboratory for Critical Care Research


 University Hospital Carl Gustav Carus; Technische Universität Dresden,
                           Dresden, Germany
 4Pulmonary Engineering Group, Department of Anesthesiology and Intensive

                              Care Medicine

   San Martino Policlinico Hospital - IRCCS for Oncology, University of
                           Genoa, Genoa, Italy
        5Department of Surgical Sciences and Integrated Diagnostics


                  Mahidol University, Bangkok, Thailand
                  7Mahidol Oxford Research Unit (MORU)


                   *PReVENT investigators, see next page


Version 1.0 from November 24, 2017.


Correspondence:
Ary Serpa Neto, MD MSc PhD
Department of Intensive Care, Academic Medical Center
Meibergdreef 9, 1105 AZ Amsterdam, The Netherlands
E–mail: ary.neto2@einstein.br
The PReVENT investigators:

R.B. de Wilde, J. Wigbers, E. de Jonge (LUMC, Leiden, The Netherlands); A.

Braber, P.E. Spronk, M. Jansen, A. Dalhuisen, J. Hofhuis, M. ten Kleij (Gelre

Ziekenhuizen, Apeldoorn, The Netherlands) V. van Schaik, J. Heidt, G. Innemee,

Y. van Gendt, G. de Vreede, M. Vriends (Tergooi, Hilversum, The Netherlands);

E. Alberts, I. van den Hul, H. Gelissen, P.R. Tuinman (VU Medical Center,

Amsterdam, The Netherlands);      G.J. Goekoop, K. Bruin (Westfriesgasthuis,

Hoorn, The Netherlands); M.J. Schultz, J.M. Binnekade, F.D. Simonis, A. van

der Veen, J. Horn, N.P. Juffermans (AMC, Amsterdam, The Netherlands); A.

Serpa Neto (Hospital Israelita Albert Einstein, São Paulo, Brazil); M. Gama de

Abreu (University Hospital Carl Gustav Carus); P. Pelosi (San Martino Policlinico

Hospital)
ABSTRACT

BACKGROUND: It is uncertain whether lung–protective mechanical ventilation

using low tidal volumes should be used in invasively ventilated critically ill patients

without the acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS).

PReVENT was a national multicenter parallel randomized controlled pragmatic

two–arm trial comparing two tidal volume strategies in intensive care unit (ICU)

patients without ARDS at onset of ventilation. To prevent outcome reporting bias,

selective reporting and data–driven results we here present a study protocol

update and the pre–specified detailed statistical analysis plan.

METHODS/DESIGN: PReVENT was a clinical trial in invasively mechanically

ventilated ICU patients without ARDS with an anticipated duration of ventilation

of longer than 24 hours, performed in the ICUs of 6 hospitals in The Netherlands.

Patients were randomly assigned to a strategy targeting low tidal volumes (4 to 6

ml/kg predicted body weight [PBW]) or high tidal volumes (8 to 10 ml/kg PBW).

The primary outcome was the number of ventilator–free days and alive at day 28.

Secondary endpoints included ICU and hospital length of stay (LOS), ICU–,

hospital–, 28– and 90–day mortality, and the incidence of pulmonary

complications, including new ARDS, pneumonia, atelectasis and pneumothorax.

DISCUSSION: Enrollment of patients was complete on August 22, 2017. The 90-

day follow–up for the last included patient is on the end of November, 2017. The

database will be cleaned and locked thereafter, which is expected on December

30, 2017.

TRIAL REGISTRATION: The trial is registered at www.clinicaltrials.gov under

reference number NCT02153294 on 23 May 2014.
KEYWORDS: Mechanical ventilation, ventilator–induced lung injury, tidal

volume, respiratory rate, protective ventilation, intensive care unit, critical care,

non–injured lungs
INTRODUCTION

PReVENT (‘PRotective VENTilation in patients without ARDS at start of

ventilation trial’) is a clinical trial comparing two tidal volume strategies in intensive

care unit (ICU) patients without ARDS at onset of ventilation [1]. The primary

objective of this trial is to determine whether protective ventilation with low tidal

volumes increases the number of ventilator–free days and alive at day 28 of

patients without ARDS at onset of invasive ventilation compared to a conventional

strategy of ventilation with high tidal volumes. Enrollment of patients in PReVENT

was complete on August 22, 2017; follow–up will be complete on the end of

November, 2017. Data collection is expected to be complete one month later.

Thereafter the database will be cleaned and finally closed.

       To prevent outcome reporting bias and data–driven analysis results, the

International Conference on Harmonization of Good Clinical Practice (ICH–GCP)

recommends that clinical trials should be analyzed according to a pre–specified

detailed statistical analysis plan [2]. The present study update and statistical

analysis plan are drafted without knowledge of the randomization codes and of

outcome data.
METHODS

Design

This is a national multicenter parallel randomized controlled pragmatic two–arm

trial comparing invasive ventilation targeting low tidal volumes (4 to 6 ml/kg

predicted body weight [PBW]) or high tidal volumes (8 to 10 ml/kg PBW) in ICU

patients without ARDS at start of invasive ventilation. The trial was conducted in

ICUs of 6 hospitals in The Netherlands. The trial protocol was previously

published [1], was registered in ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT02153294) and was

approved by the Institutional Review Board of the Academic Medical Center,

Amsterdam, The Netherlands, under reference number 2014_075#B2014424.

Eligibility of the patients

Consecutive patients admitted to one of the participating ICUs who needed

invasive ventilation were screened for eligibility. Patients were included under a

strategy of deferred consent if they fulfilled the inclusion and exclusion criteria,

because randomization was to be performed within 1 hour of start of invasive

ventilation in the ICU. Informed consent was asked from a legal representative in

all cases within 24 hours. When after randomization consent was rejected or not

obtained within this time window, the patient was excluded.

Inclusion and exclusion criteria

ICU patients receiving invasive mechanical ventilated were eligible for

participation if they were expected not to be extubated within the next 24 hours.

Patients who were receiving in–hospital invasive ventilation shortly before the

present ICU admission, for instance in the emergency room or operation room,

were also eligible as long as duration of ventilation before admission to the ICU

did not exceed 12 hours and needed to be included within 1 hour after ICU
admission. Reasons for exclusion were age < 18 years, previous randomization

in PReVENT or participating in another interventional trial, patients with a clinical

diagnosis of ARDS according to the Berlin definition [3], patients being pregnant,

having increased and uncontrollable intracranial pressure (≥ 18 mmHg), patients

suffering from GOLD classification III or IV chronic obstructive pulmonary disease

(COPD), with status asthmaticus or premorbid restrictive pulmonary disease

(evidence of chronic interstitial infiltration on previous chest radiographs), new

proven pulmonary thrombo–embolism or previous pneumectomy or lobectomy.

Randomization

Eligible patients were randomly allocated in a 1:1 ratio to the low or high tidal

volume strategy. Randomization was performed using a dedicated, password

protected, SSL–encrypted website with ALEA® software (TenALEA consortium,

Amsterdam, The Netherlands) using random block sizes and stratified per center

and per intubation location (intubated in the ICU, or before ICU admittance in the

emergency room or operation room).

The ventilation strategies

In both arms the size of tidal volumes was titrated on the predicted body weight

(PBW), which is calculated according to a previously used formula [4]:

            50 + 0.91 x (centimeters of height – 152.4) for male; and

            45.5 + 0.91 x (centimeters of height – 152.4) for females

Patients randomized to the low tidal volume strategy started with a tidal volume

of 6 ml/kg PBW in the volume–controlled ventilation mode (Table 1). The tidal

volume size was then decreased in steps of 1 ml/kg PBW per hour, to a minimum

of 4 ml/kg PBW if possible. In case a patient suffered from severe dyspnea

(identified by increased respiratory rate > 35 breaths per minute accompanied by
increasing levels of discomfort with or without need for more sedation), severe

asynchrony, or unacceptable acidosis, tidal volumes could be increased. When

pressure support ventilation was used, the lowest level (5 cm H2O) of pressure

support determined the lowest possible tidal volume size. Thus, if the tidal volume

exceeded 6 ml/kg PBW at 5 cm H2O, this was to be accepted. Additional use of

sedation and/or muscle relaxants, with the purpose to facilitate the use of lower

tidal volumes, was not allowed. In patients in whom respiratory acidosis did not

respond to an increase in the respiratory rate, removal of the heat and moisture

exchanger and decreasing instrumental dead space, to limit dead space

ventilation, could be considered.

       Patients randomized to the high tidal volume strategy started with a tidal

volume of 10 ml/kg PBW in the volume–controlled ventilation mode (Table 2). If

the plateau pressure or maximum airway pressure exceeded 25 cm H2O,

respectively during volume–controlled and pressure support ventilation, tidal

volume was decreased in steps of 1 ml/kg PBW to 8 ml/kg PBW. Additional use

of sedation and/or muscle relaxants, with the purpose to allow higher tidal

volumes, was also not allowed in this arm of the trial.

Outcomes

The primary outcome is the number of ventilator–free days and alive at day 28,

defined as the number of days from day 1 to day 28 when the patient is alive and

breathes without invasive assistance of the mechanical ventilator for at least 24

consecutive hours. To calculate this endpoint all relevant data are to be taken

into account and collected, including all additional periods of ventilation during

the first 28 days.
       Secondary outcomes included ICU– and hospital length of stay, ICU–,

hospital–, 28– and 90–day mortality, development of new ARDS, ventilator–

associated pneumonia (VAP), atelectasis or pneumothorax.

Study organization

The steering committee was composed of the principal investigator, the

coordinating investigator, local investigators in the participating ICUs, and six

(inter–) national experts in ventilatory support in critically ill patients, who all

contribute to the design and revisions of the original study protocol. The

coordinating investigator was responsible for administrative management and

communication with the local investigators and provided assistance to the

participating clinical sites in trial management, record keeping and data

management. The coordinating investigator helped in setting up local training in

the participating ICUs to ensure the study was conducted according to the ICH–

GCP guidelines, to guaranty integrity of data collection and to ensure timely

completion of the case report forms. Local investigators provided structural and

scientific leadership. They guaranteed the integrity of data collection and ensure

timely completion of the case report forms.

Data collection

Data collection was performed using electronic case report forms in the Oracle

Clinical application (Oracle Corporation, CA, USA) via the Internet at the Clinical

Research Unit system of the Academic Medical Center. The system had the

following functions: patient registration, data input, data cleaning, and data export

for statistical analysis. Local investigators entered data directly into the system.

Instructions for using the system were available to investigators at all times.

Electronic files were archived in the Academic Medical Center–based server in a
secure and controlled environment to maintain confidentiality. Electronic

documents were controlled with password protection according to best practices.

Data management

The objective of the clinical data management plan was to provide high–quality

data by adopting standardized procedures to minimize the number of errors and

missing data, and consequently, to generate an accurate database for analysis.

An independent monitor was installed to perform study monitoring. Remote

monitoring was performed to signal early aberrant patterns, issues with

consistency, credibility and other anomalies. On–site monitoring comprised

controlling presence and completeness of the research dossier and the informed

consent forms, and source data checks were performed in the files of 25 % of the

patients. All ICUs were visited regularly.

Data monitoring board and safety analyses

An independent Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) was established that

included five independent individuals (Prof. Herman Wrigge (chair) [Germany],

Prof. Antonio Artigas Raventós [Spain], Prof. Thomas Bein [Germany], Prof.

Ognjen Gajic [USA] and Dr. Diederik Gommers [The Netherlands]). The

responsibilities of the DSMB were to ensure safety of patients in the trial by

protecting them from avoidable harm. Second, the DSMB provided the Steering

Committee with advice about conduct of the study and integrity of the data to

protect the validity and scientific credibility of the trial. The DSMB met by

conference calls. A statistician performed safety analyses and safety reports

which were sent to the DSMB after recruitment of the first 150 patients and in the

year after.
      Based on the provided information the DSMB had no concerns over safety.

The DSMB recommended continuation of the trial after all DSMB meetings.

Cleaning and locking of the database

The database will be locked as soon as all data are entered and all discrepant or

missing data are resolved – or if all efforts are employed and we consider that

the remaining issues cannot be fixed. At this step, the data will be reviewed before

database locking. After that, the study database will be locked and exported for

statistical analysis. At this stage, permission for access to the database will be

removed for all investigators, and the database will be archived.

Missing data

No or minimal losses to follow–up for the primary and secondary outcomes are

anticipated. Complete–case analysis will be carried out for all the outcomes, that

is, excluding patients with missing data. However, if more than 1% of missing

data were found for the primary outcome, a sensitivity analysis using multiple

imputations and estimating–equation methods will be carried out.

Sample size

The trial was designed to last until 952 patients are enrolled. This number of

patients was expected to be sufficient to detect an increase of 1 ventilator–free

days in the treatment group considering a common standard deviation in

ventilator–free days of 5.0 [5], a type I error of 5%, 80% of power, similar

allocation of subjects to each group and corrected for dropouts.

Predefined statistical analysis plan

There were no major adjustments from the preliminary analysis plan, as reported

previously in this journal [1]. In accordance, all statistical analyses will be

conducted according to the intention–to–treat principle, considering all patients in
the treatment groups to which they were randomly assigned, except for cases

lost to follow-up due to withdraw of consent.

      Continuous distribution of the data will be assessed by visual inspection of

histograms and D’Agostino–Pearson’s normality tests. For the experimental and

control arms, the baseline characteristics will be expressed as counts and

percentages, means and standard deviations (SD), or medians and interquartile

ranges (IQR) whenever appropriate as indicated in the eTables, which we intend

to include in the main results paper.

      Hypothesis tests will be two–sided with a significance level of 5%. We will

not adjust P–values for multiple comparisons. Analyses will be performed using

the R (R Core Team, 2016, Vienna, Austria) program.

Trial profile: Patient flows will be presented in a CONSORT flowchart (Figure 1).

Baseline comparisons: Patient’s baseline characteristics will be presented by

study arm (eTable 1).

Adherence to study interventions and ventilatory variables: Ventilatory

variables and other interventions will be reported from post–randomization to day

7 (or extubation) and compared between the two groups, as shown in eTable 2

and 3. Tidal volume size in mL/kg PBW over the first seven days will be analyzed

using a mixed model with repeated measures and plotted in an interaction plot.

Primary outcome: The effects of the intervention on ventilator–free days at day

28 will be estimated with a Student’s t–test and reported as the mean difference

between the two groups. The two–sided α–level for the primary outcome is 0.05

(eTable 4). The ventilator–free days between the two groups will be compared

according to an interaction plot. Kaplan–Meier curves will be used to report time
to liberation of mechanical ventilation. Curves will be compared with the log–rank

tests.

Secondary outcomes: The number and percentages of deaths in the ICU,

hospital, within 28 days and 90 days will be reported. Survival within 28 and 90

days will be assessed using Kaplan–Meier curves, and hazard ratios with a 95%

confidence interval will be calculated with Cox proportional hazard models

without adjustment for covariates. The proportional hazard assumptions will be

tested and alternative parametric survival models will be used if the

proportionality assumption is not sustained [6]. The effect of the intervention on

ICU and hospital mortality will be assessed with risk ratio and 95% confidence

intervals calculated with Wald’s likelihood ratio approximation test and with χ2

tests for hypothesis testing.

         The effects of the intervention on length of hospitalization and ICU stay will

be estimated with generalized linear models considering distributions that will fit

a possible heavy right–tailed distribution without zero (such as truncated Poisson,

gamma distribution or inverse Gaussian), choosing the best fit according to

model’s deviance [7]. The effect of the intervention on the other secondary

outcomes described in eTable 4 will be assessed with risk ratio and 95%

confidence intervals calculated with Wald’s likelihood ratio approximation test and

with χ2 tests for hypothesis testing.

Per–protocol analysis: In creating a per–protocol population we will exclude

patients who had one or more major protocol violations. Patients assigned to the

low tidal volume strategy will be excluded for the per–protocol analysis if receiving

tidal volume > 6 ml/kg PBW for the first 2 days while ventilation was not executed

according to the boundaries that were imposed by the study protocol, like
reducing tidal volume size or the level of pressure support in the absence of

severe dyspnea, severe asynchrony, or unacceptable acidosis. Patients

assigned to the high tidal volume strategy will be excluded for the per–protocol

analysis if receiving tidal volume < 8 ml/kg PBW for the first 2 days while

ventilation was not executed according to the boundaries that were imposed by

the study protocol, like increasing tidal volume size or the level of pressure

support while the plateau pressure or maximum airway pressure did not exceed

25 cm H2O.

Subgroup analyses: Treatment effects on ventilator–free days at day 28 will be

analyzed according to the following subgroups: 1) ventilation because of

pneumonia versus ventilation for other reasons; 2) sepsis versus non–sepsis; 3)

PaO2/FiO2 ≤ 200 versus PaO2/FiO2 > 200; 4) Lung Injury Prediction Score (LIPS)

≥ 4 versus LIPS < 4; 5) clinical admission versus surgical admission; 6) Simplified

Acute Physiology Score (SAPS) II ≥ 50 versus SAPS II < 50; 7) mechanical

ventilation before randomization > 6 hours versus ≤ 6 hours; 8) start of invasive

ventilation in the ICU versus start of ventilation before ICU admission; and 9) high

versus a low respiratory rate (based on the median of the first 2 days of

ventilation). The effects on subgroups will be evaluated according to the

interaction effects between each subgroup and the study arms by generalized

linear models considering zero–inflated distributions and presented in a forest

plot.

Other exploratory analyses: All are pre-specified post-hoc exploratory

analyses. As a sensitivity analysis, the effect of the intervention on the primary

outcome will be re-estimated using generalized linear models considering zero-

inflated distributions and with adjustment for the following covariates at baseline:
age, LIPS, SAPS II score and PaO2/FiO2. Also, in a second analysis a

generalized linear mixed model considering zero-inflated distributions and with

stratification variables (center and intubation location) as random effects will be

tested.

       Due to progressing insights into the potential harm of mechanical

ventilation since we started this trial, which is caused by the concept of

mechanical power [8], we will perform a mediation analysis to assess if

mechanical power mediates the eventual effects of the randomly assigned

treatment on ventilator-free days. As we did not collect all variables that are

needed for this calculation directly into the database, i.e., we did not collect the

driving pressure and the flow, we will calculate these from the variables that are

available. Driving pressure will be calculated using the PEEP and plateau

pressure level, when present. The flow will be calculated using the respiratory

rate, inspiration to expiration ratio and the tidal volume in milliliters.
CONCLUSION

According to best research practice, we reported here the pre–specified detailed

statistical analysis plan prior to locking the database and starting analyses. This

document guarantees against reporting bias, selective reporting and data–driven

results, as such enhancing the utility of the reported results.
FIGURE LEGENDS

Figure 1 – Flow of the patients in the PReVENT trial
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS

ARDS: acute respiratory distress syndrome

CONSORT: Consolidated Standards of Reporting Trials

COPD: chronic obstructive pulmonary disease

DSMB: Data and Safety Monitoring Board

GOLD: Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease

ICH-GCP: International Conference on Harmonisation - Good Clinical Practice

ICU: intensive care unit

IQR: interquartile range

LIPS: lung injury prediction score

LOS: length of stay

PBW: predicted body weight

PReVENT: PRotective VENTilation in patients without ARDS

SAP: statistical analysis plan

SAPS: Simplified Acute Physiology Score

SD: standard deviation

VAP: ventilator-associated pneumonia
DECLARATIONS

Ethics approval and consent to participate: The Institutional Review Board of

the Academic Medical Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands, approved the study

for all centers (reference number 2014_075#B2014424).

Consent for publication: Not applicable.

Availability of data and material: Not applicable.

Competing interests: The authors declare that they have no competing

interests.

Funding: This study is an investigator–initiated trial, funded by ZonMW

(Zorgonderzoek Medische Wetenschappen, part of the NWO [Nederlandse

Organisatie voor Wetenschappelijk Onderzoek] the Dutch Organization for

Scientific Research, Den Haag, The Netherlands), and the Academic Medical

Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

Authors’ contributions:

FDS, ASN, PP, MGA, and MJS, designed the study, the statistical analysis plan

and approved the initially submitted version of this manuscript. All authors read

and approved the final manuscript.

Acknowledgments: None.
REFERENCES

1.    Simonis FD, Binnekade JM, Braber A, Gelissen HP, Heidt J, Horn J, et al.

PReVENT--protective ventilation in patients without ARDS at start of ventilation:

study protocol for a randomized controlled trial. Trials 2015;16:226-37.

2.    Dwand K, Gamble C, Williamson PR, Altaman DG. Reporting of clinical

trials: a review of research funders' guidelines. Trials 2008;9:66

3.    The ARDS Definition Task Force. Acute respiratory distress syndrome: the

Berlin Definition. JAMA 2012;307:2526–33.

4.    Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome Network. Ventilation with lower tidal

volumes as compared with traditional tidal volumes for acute lung injury and the

acute respiratory distress syndrome. The Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome

Network. N Engl J Med 2000;342:1301–8.

5.    Serpa Neto A, Simonis FD, Barbas CS, Biehl M, Determann RM, Elmer J,

et al. Association between tidal volume size, duration of ventilation, and sedation

needs in patients without acute respiratory distress syndrome: an individual

patient data meta-analysis. Intensive Care Med 2014;40:950-7.

6.    Grambsch PM, Therneau TM. Proportional hazards tests and diagnostics

based on weighted residuals. Biometrika. 1994;81(3):515-26.

7.    McCullagh P, Nelder JA. Generalized linear models. 2nd ed. (Monographs

on Statistics and Probability 37). London: Chapman & Hall; 1989.

8.    Gattinoni L, Tonetti T, Cressoni M, Cadringher P, Herrmann P, Moerer O,

et al. Ventilator-related causes of lung injury: the mechanical power. Intensive

Care Med 2016;42:1567-75.
                      MODIFICATIONS FROM THE ORIGINAL ANALYSIS PLAN

                                                        UPDATE IN THE SAP*                                                   MODIFICATIONS
                          ORIGINAL PLAN
    ANALYSIS                                           (Closed in November 24,                   IN THE PAPER                 POST-HOC**
                        (Trials 2015;16:226)
                                                                 2017)
                        Cox proportional hazards     Student’s t–test and reported as the   Student’s t–test and reported
Primary outcome                                                                                                                      None
                                  model                        mean difference                 as the mean difference
                            ICU length of stay                                                    ICU length of stay
                          Hospital length of stay                                              Hospital length of stay
                              ICU mortality                  ICU length of stay                      ICU mortality
                            Hospital mortality            Hospital length of stay                 Hospital mortality
                             90-day mortality                  ICU mortality                       28-day mortality
                          Development of ARDS                 Hospital mortality                   90-day mortality
                                                                                                                            Extra-pulmonary infection
                           Development of VAP                 28-day mortality                 Development of ARDS
                                                                                                                             Extra-pulmonary sepsis
Secondary outcomes     Development of Atelectasis             90-day mortality                  Development of VAP
                                                                                                                              Need of tracheostomy
                       Presence of Pneumothorax           Development of ARDS                Development of Atelectasis
                       Cumulative use and duration         Development of VAP                      Development of
                               of sedatives             Development of Atelectasis                  Pneumothorax
                       Cumulative use and duration     Development of Pneumothorax            Extra-pulmonary infection
                                of NMBA                                                        Extra-pulmonary sepsis
                         ICU-acquired weakness                                                         Delirium
                                 Delirium                                                       Need of tracheostomy
                                                     GLM with adjustment for covariates                                      Not reporting the GLM
                                                                                              GLMM with stratifications
Additional analyses           Not planned            GLMM with stratifications variables                                      with adjustment for
                                                                                             variables as random-effect
                                                              as random-effect                                                     covariates
                                                              Pneumonia or not                   Pneumonia or not
                                                                Sepsis or not                      Sepsis or not
                                                               PaO2 / FiO2 ratio                 PaO2 / FiO2 ratio
                            Pneumonia or not                         LIPS                               LIPS
Subgroup analyses                                                                                                                    None
                              Sepsis or not                     Clinical or not                   Clinical or not
                                                                    SAPS                               SAPS
                                                      Ventilation before randomization           Ventilation before
                                                       Location of start of ventilation           randomization
                                                                               Respiratory rate                  Location of start of ventilation
                                                                                                                        Respiratory rate
                                                                     Interaction effects between each             Interaction effects between         Change the zero-inflated
Statistical approach for                                             subgroup and the study arms by              each subgroup and the study          distribution to Gaussian
                                       Not described
subgroup analyses                                                     GLM considering zero–inflated                arms by GLM considering            distribution (according to
                                                                                distributions                        Gaussian distributions                    the CLT)
                                                                      Described according to protocol
Per protocol analyses                    Described                                                                        Not described                           None
                                                                                 violations
                                                                                                                   Slightly different from the
Mock tables                            Not included                                Included                       mock tables reported in the                     None
                                                                                                                               SAP
Other                                     Nothing                            Mediation analyses                               None                                None
ICU: intensive care unit; ARDS: acute respiratory distress syndrome; VAP: ventilator-associated pneumonia; NMBA: neuromuscular blocking agent; GLM: generalized linear models; GLMM:
generalized linear mixed-effect model; LIPS: Lung Injury Prediction Score; SAPS: Simplified Acute Physiology Score; CLT: central limit theorem
* Database locking in December 30, 2017
** Not considered neither in the original plan nor in the updated SAP
