                                             CALGB 70807



        10.1.3 Methods
                 Carotenoids: The blood nutrient analysis will take place at UCSD under the
                 direction of Dr. Rock. The carotenoid analysis will be done at UCSD. Plasma
                 carotenoids will be separated and quantified using the HPLC methodology that we
                 have used previously (40, 67, 68), with modifications to reduce oxidative loss and
                 improve recovery of compounds during analysis. Standard reference materials from
                 the manufacturer will be used to validate analytical precision of these procedures. At
                 UCSD, samples will be stored at all times at -70º C or lower temperatures in freezers
                 equipped with temperature alarms in the Moores UCSD Cancer Center that are
                 under the direct supervision of Dr. Rock.
                 Cholesterol is analyzed using the KODAK EKTACHEM DT SLIDE. The slide is a
                 multilayered film in a plastic support. It contains all the reagents necessary to
                 determine cholesterol level in serum or plasma. A 10 uL drop of specimen is
                 deposited on the slide. The sample spreads evenly and diffuses into the reagent
                 layers. Cholesterol in the sample undergoes a series of reactions in the slide to
                 produce a colored compound. The intensity of the color ids proportional to the
                 amount of cholesterol in the sample and is measured by the KODAK EKTACHEM
                 DT60 analyzer.
                 Principles of the procedure: The spreading layer distributes the sample evenly on the
                 slide and causes the cholesterol to dissociate from lipoprotein carriers. Cholesterol
                 esters are hydrolyzed to free cholesterol which then undergoes a series of reactions
                 beginning with oxidation by the specific enzyme, cholesterol oxidase. In the final
                 reaction, a colored dye is produced. By measuring the amount of light reflected from
                 the dyed layer after a fixed incubation period, the DT60 Analyzer can calculate the
                 amount of cholesterol present in the sample.

    10.2 Serum carotenoid analyses (Substudy 151105)
           Carotenoid analysis can be evaluated on plasma or serum. Therefore, in addition to the
           plasma sample, we will be collecting and banking serum for evaluation of carotenoids, if
           needed, as well as for the evaluation of other circulating markers of interest.

    10.3 Polymorphism Analysis (Substudy 151105)

        10.3.1 Background
                 Multiple genetic variants have been identified which are linked to increase risk of
                 developing prostate carcinoma (84-89). There is increasing evidence that genetic
                 factors could not only predispose men to prostate cancer in general but specifically
                 for aggressive disease. For example CASP8 and MDM2 contain variants associated
                 with risk of aggressive prostate carcinoma (90, 91). Cheng et al (92) and Beebe-
                 Dimmer et al (93) demonstrated that at least some 8q24 variants are associated with
                 risk of advanced disease. Duggan et al identified rs1571801, located in the DAB2IP
                 gene, as a candidate which was associated with aggressive PCa in both European-
                 Americans (p=0.004) and African-Americans (p=0.02) (94). Mononen et al found that
                 5’ untranslated variant in CYP17A1 was associated with an increased risk of high
                 grade PCa (95).
                 Identification of a population of patients at risk for aggressive disease is only useful
                 if the disease can be prevented or treated effectively. Dietary manipulation holds
                 promise as a way of preventing or ameliorating the risk of developing prosate
                 carcinoma. There is a growing body of evidence that dietary factors may modify
                 genetic risk. Several genes, such as MnSOD, XRCC1, and GST, may modify the
                 association of specific nutrients and foods with prostate cancer risk and groups have
                 called for further research to confirm these initial observations (96). For example,
                 evidence from the Physicians Health Study suggests that manganese superoxide
                 dismutase (MnSOD) polymorphism V16A may interact with selenium levels to modify
                 risk of clinically aggressive PCa (97). MnSOD genotype were not associated with
                 increased risk of disease. However, when they stratified the cases by prediagnostic
Version Date 09/26/18                                                                          Update #10
                                                   34
