                                           CALGB 70807



Can I stop being in the study?
Yes. You can decide to stop at any time. Tell the study doctor or nurse if you are thinking about
stopping or decide to stop.
It is important to tell your study doctor if you are thinking about stopping so you can discuss what
follow up care and testing could be most helpful for you.
The study doctor may stop you from taking part in this study at any time if he/she believes it is in
your best interest; if you do not follow the study rules; or if the study is stopped.


What side effects or risks can I expect from being in the study?
You may have side effects while on the study. Everyone taking part in the study will be watched
carefully for any side effects. However, doctors don't know all the side effects that may happen. You
should talk to your study doctor about any side effects that you have while taking part in the study.

Possible risks from changing your diet
    •   Your skin, especially on the palms of your hands and the soles of your feet, may become
        yellow because of a diet high in carotenoids.
    •   You may become bloated or have a lot of gas for a short period because you may be eating
        more vegetables and dietary fiber than usual. You may get diarrhea or become constipated at
        first, but only until your body can adjust to your new diet.

Other risks
    •   There may be a small risk in the process of drawing blood. You may faint or become dizzy.
        You may feel a little pain or discomfort as the needle goes through the skin. Some bleeding
        or bruising may occur at the site where blood is drawn. Pressing hard on the spot for 1 or 2
        minutes after the needle is removed will help to prevent this. Very rarely, your arm may swell
        or become infected.


Are there benefits to taking part in the study?
There will be no direct benefits to you other than those associated with changing your diet. The
investigators may learn more about how diet plays a role in changing the way prostate cancer can
spread in the body. This information could help future prostate cancer patients.
It is important to remember that while there may be benefits, you should continue to be followed by
your doctor for your prostate cancer.




Version Date 09/26/18                                                                       Update #10
                                                 51
