                                             CALGB 70807



13.0 MODEL CONSENT FORM

The Men’s Eating and Living (MEAL) Study: A Randomized Trial of
Diet to Alter Disease Progression in Prostate Cancer Patients on
Active Surveillance

This is a clinical trial, a type of research study. Your study doctor will explain the clinical trial to
you. Clinical trials include only patients who choose to take part. Please take your time to make your
decision. Discuss it with your friends and family. You can also discuss it with your health care team.
If you have any questions, you can ask your study doctor for more explanation.
[Attach NCI booklet “Taking Part in Clinical Trials: What Cancer Patients Need to Know”]
You are being asked to take part in this study because you have been diagnosed with prostate cancer
and are receiving regular follow-up care with your primary physician.


Why is this study being done?
You are being asked to take part in a research study of men who are undergoing active surveillance
for their prostate cancer. The purpose of the study is to find out more about how diet may prevent
prostate cancer from getting worse.


How many people will take part in this study?
About 464 men will participate in this study.


What will happen if I take part in this research study?
Before you begin the study . . .
You will need to have the following exams, tests or procedures to find out if you can be in the study.
These exams, tests or procedures are part of regular cancer care and may be done even if you do not
join the study. If you have had some of them recently, they may not need to be repeated. This will be
up to your study doctor.
    •   A complete history and physical exam including a digital rectal exam
    •   A PSA test

After you are enrolled in the study, you will be asked to provide about 2 teaspoons of blood for
research. Study researchers will analyze the blood to determine carotenoid and cholesterol levels.
Carotenoid refers to the red to yellow pigments responsible for the color of many plant organs or
fruits, such as tomatoes or carrots. Cholesterol is a fat-like substance that is made by the body and is
found naturally in animal foods such as meat, fish, poultry, eggs, and dairy products. The blood
samples will be used to see if changes in your diet have affected carotenoid and cholesterol levels in
your blood. Your carotenoid, and cholesterol levels as measured in this study will not be reported to
you or your doctor.
Also, you will be asked to complete questionnaires about your current health, your food preparation
and eating habits, your usual food intake over the past year, your quality of life, function and anxiety.
Version Date 09/26/18                                                                          Update #10
                                                   48
