                                            CALGB 70807


Run-in: During a two-week period after enrollment (called “Run-in”), study researchers from the
University of California at San Diego (UCSD) will call you on three different days over the
telephone and ask you questions about your medical history and diet. During these interviews, called
“24-hour dietary recalls,” you will be asked to recall everything you ate and drank during the
previous 24 hours. You may skip any question that makes you uncomfortable. These telephone
interviews will take approximately 20 minutes.

During the study . . .
If you are able to complete the three 24-hour dietary recall interviews and you choose to participate
in the study, you will be "randomized" into one of the study groups described below. Randomization
means that you are put into a group by chance. A computer program will place you in one of the
study groups. Neither you nor your doctor can choose the group you will be in. You will have an
equal chance of being placed in either group.
Group 1
If you are in Group 1 (often called "Arm A") you will be assigned to a program providing you with
telephone counseling to help change your diet. You will be asked to change your diet to increase the
amounts of fiber-rich plant foods (vegetables, fruit, whole grains, and beans) that you eat. You will
receive assistance from diet counselors at UCSD to help you achieve the dietary goals. These
counseling calls will take an average of 30 minutes and will occur twice weekly for the first two
weeks, and gradually decrease in frequency (weekly, bi-monthly, monthly). The counseling calls
may be monitored and audio-taped for quality assurance purposes. After the first six months, your
telephone counselor will call you periodically throughout the remainder of the study to check on how
you are maintaining the study diet. You will receive a total of 22 calls over the 24-month period. A
diet intervention manual, a booklet, and regularly scheduled newsletters will also be provided to you.
Group 2
If you are in Group 2 (often called "Arm B") you will be assigned to a program providing you with
information about diet and cancer. You will receive an initial orientation telephone call that will take
about 5 to 10 minutes as well as a booklet containing information about nutrition, exercise and
prostate cancer. Regularly scheduled newsletters will also be provided to you.

Tests and Procedures
Participants in groups 1 and 2 will complete the tests and procedures listed below. They are part of
regular cancer care.
    •   A PSA test every 3 months
    •   A complete history and physical exam every 6 months
    •   A digital rectal examination every 12 months at the urologists discretion
    •   A prostate biopsy after you have completed the study (after 24 months)




Version Date 09/26/18                                                                         Update #10
                                                  49
