                                              CALGB 70807


    9.1    Personal Habits Questionnaire
           The personal habits questionnaire, used in the Women’s Health Initiative (WHEL) study
           (66), consists of 8 sets of questions that address a number of generic health behavior
           TXHVWLRQV FLJDUHWWH VPRNLQJ DOFRKRO FRQVXPSWLRQ ZHLJKW FKDQJH GXULQJ DGXOW OLIH
           adherence to any kind of special diet (e.g. low-calorie, low-fat, low-cholesterol, low salt,
           high-ILEHU  UHFUHDWLRQDO SK\VLFDO DFWLYLW\ LQFOXGLQJ PLOG PRGHUDWH DQG VWUHQXRXV
           DFWLYLW\DQGSK\VLFDODFWLYLW\DWYDULRXVDJHV7KHVHTXHVWLRQVZKLFKZLOOEHXVed mainly
           to make sure randomization produced comparable groups, are as appropriate for men as
           for women.

    9.2    Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy Scale-Prostate [FACT-P]
           The FACT-P [version 4.0], developed by Cella and colleagues (44, 51) is a prostate cancer
           specific quality of life questionnaire which includes a 27 item 'core' quality of life measure
           [FACT-G] grouped into four subscales: physical well-being, social/family well-being,
           emotional well-being, and functional well-being. There are an additional 12 items specific
           to prostate cancer, 10 of which are prostate cancer-specific physical problems. Almost all
           FACT-P subscale items are rated on a 5 item Likert scale, from 0, 'not at all' to 4, 'very
           much'. The FACT-G has been tested on 630 patients with mixed cancer diagnoses. The
           internal consistency of the subscales ranges from .65-.82, with excellent internal
           consistency of the total score: an alpha coefficient of .89. Test-retest reliability is excellent
           within a 7 day period, with correlations ranging from .82-.92. Convergent validity has
           been demonstrated, with the FACT correlating significantly with other quality of life
           measures (FLIC, r=.79), and related constructs of psychological distress (e.g. Brief POMS,
           r=-.68) and the ECOG performance rating (r=-.52). The FACT-G has been able to
           distinguish between patients with metastatic and non-metastatic disease. Internal
           consistency of the Prostate-Specific Concerns subscale was of moderate strength (alpha
           coefficients ranging from .65-.69] when tested with 130 prostate cancer patients (44).
           Evidence of convergent validity of the Prostate-Specific Concerns subscale was provided
           by its significant negative correlations with depression (Inventory to Diagnose Depression,
           r= -.34, p< .001), and anxiety (Spielberger Trait Anxiety Scale, r= -.33, p< .001). Further,
           significantly greater Prostate-Specific Concerns scores were found for those with more
           advanced disease than those with earlier stage disease. Sensitivity to change over time
           was also demonstrated by significantly greater worsening of Physical and Functional
           Well-being, and Prostate-Specific Concerns subscale scores over a two month period for
           those with worsening Performance Status (44).

    9.3    Memorial Anxiety Scale for Prostate Cancer [MAX-PC]
           The Memorial Anxiety Scale for Prostate Cancer [MAX-PC] is a prostate cancer-specific
           measure to assess patient anxiety due to prostate cancer, PSA tests and fears of
           recurrence (45, 46). It consists of 18 items: 11 items that parallel items from the Impact
           of (YHQW 6FDOH LQFOXGLQJ DYRLGDQW DQG LQWUXVLYH WKRXJKWV DERXW SURVWDWH FDQFHU   
           items specific to PSA tests, and 4 items concerning fear of recurrence. The items are
           grouped into three subscales: Prostate Cancer Anxiety (PCA), PSA Anxiety, and Fear of
           Recurrence. Fourteen items are rated on a four point Likert scale ranging from 'not at all'
           to 'often' and 4 items are rated on a Likert scale ranging from 'strongly agree' to 'strongly
           disagree'. Internal consistency for the total score is excellent (alpha coefficient = .89). The
           PCA and Fear of Recurrence also demonstrated strong internal consistency (PCA alpha
           FRHIILFLHQW )HDU    7HVW-retest reliability is excellent for the total score and
           three subscales (.74 - .89). The three factor model was confirmed in a second study of
           the MAX-PC (46). Total scores correlated significantly with other measures of distress,
           including the HADS (r=.52, p< .0001) and the Distress Thermometer (r =.45, p< .0001).
           Significant correlations were also found between changes in the MAX-PC score with
           changes in the HADS total score (r=.30, p< .0001). Further, there was a significant
           difference among four PSA change groups (i.e. steady, rising, falling and unstable) for the
           MAX-PC (p = .003), PCA (p = .045), and the Fear of Recurrence subscale (p= .0001).



Version Date 09/26/18                                                                             Update #10
                                                    30
