                                                                                                                    9
terms of clinical meaningfulness, meta-analytic review estimates the absolute risk reduction between two widely

accepted first-line treatments (i.e., varenicline and bupropion) is 0.089 which is smaller than the lower-bound 95%

Credible Limits for all contrasts in E-Table 2. As a pre-specified outcome, we stipulated a posterior probability of > 0.80

that the postulated effect exists (i.e., Pr (O.R. > 1|data) > 0.80) would constitute confirmation of our hypotheses,

sufficient for informing clinical decision making and conducting future trials.



eAppendix 4 Supplemental Analyses for Secondary Outcomes of Continuous Abstinence at EOT+30 and 6 months

        Secondary outcomes of continuous abstinence (CA) at EOT+30 and 6 months are described below. The study

was not powered to detect differences using frequentist methods at these distal timepoints for continuous abstinence.

As is the case in most smoking cessation research, a decline in absolute abstinence rates was observed over longer

periods of follow-up after treatment had concluded.

Secondary Outcomes Summarized Analysis

        The posterior probabilities and 95% Credible intervals for each treatment condition for CA at EOT+ 30 and 6-

month follow-up points are provided in E-Figures 2 & 3, respectively. The same contrasts as carried out for the 7-day pp

outcome at EOT were conducted at both time points, calculating the probability of a non-zero difference for each

contrast, as a metric for the benefit for switching and increasing approaches, relative to continuing, for week 6 non-

abstainers initially treated with either CNRT or varenicline. The absolute risk difference (ARD) and 95% CrI between the

comparison of each continue condition to the respective switch and increase dose conditions within each of the phase 1

non-abstainer groups treated with either CNRT or varenicline are presented in E-Table 9. In addition, the contrast

between the respective switch and increase conditions within CNRT and varenicline [phase 1 non-abstainer groups are

presented in E-Table 10. Similarly, the contrast between phase 1 abstainers (those abstaining at week 6 and remaining

of the same medication) in the CNRT and varenicline conditions at each of the follow-up time points are presented in E-

Table 11.

        Posterior probability distributions for CA at EOT+30 are shown in E-Figure 2. Among CNRT Phase 1 non-

abstainers (n=191), both the dose increase to CNRT+ (8%; n=50) or switching to varenicline (10%; n=51) provided more

benefit (posterior probability >99%; see E-Table 9 for ARD and 95% Crl) than continuing CNRT (3%; n=90). However, for
