Supplemental Online Content

1

Cinciripini PM, Green CH, Shete S, et al, Therapeutic strategies for smoking cessation after initial treatment
failure with varenicline or combined nicotine replacement: a randomized clinical trial. JAMA. doi:10.1001/
jama.2024.4183
eAppendix 1. eAppendix 1. Behavioral Counseling
eAppendix 2. Sample Size Estimation
eAppendix 3. Inverse Probability Weighting Data Modeling and Prior Specification
eAppendix 4. Supplemental Analyses for Secondary Outcomes of Continuous Abstinence at EOT+30 and 6 months
eAppendix 5. Post-hoc Analyses for Dynamic Treatment Effects
eFigure 1. Anticipated probabilities for 7-day point prevalence at EOT (Primary Outcome)
eFigure 2. Probability of continuous abstinence at the EOT (week 12) + 30 days follow-up as a function of phase 1
treatment condition, and end of phase 1 smoking status
eFigure 3. Probability of continuous abstinence at the 6-month post TQD (target quit-date) follow-up
eTable 1. The probability derived from logistic regression models
eTable 2. Estimates of probability of detecting any benefit conferred by the treatment hypothesized as being superior
eTable 3. Baseline Measures and Demographics by Phase 1 Treatment by Phase 1 Response by Phase 2 Treatment eTable
4. ARD and NNT for seven-day point prevalence at EOT
eTable 5. Number of participants (n) experiencing adverse events in Phase 1 by organ system and treatment
eTable 6. Participants experiencing adverse events in phase 2 by organ system and treatment
eTable 7. Phase 1 visit and medication compliance
eTable 8. Phase 2 visit and medication compliance
eTable 9. Phase 2 comparison of each rescue strategy (switch and increase) vs continuation for continuous abstinence
among nonabstainers
eTable 10. Phase 2 outcomes
eTable 11. Phase 2 outcomes for phase 1 abstainers
eTable 12. Dynamic treatment effect for each combined phase1 and phase 2 pathway
eReferencesThis supplemental material has been provided by the authors to give readers additional
information about their work.

