4

eAppendix 1 Behavioral Counseling
All smokers received individual 15-minute behavioral smoking cessation counseling sessions conducted over 2 inclinic and 3 telephone visits in Phase 1, and 2 in-clinic and one telephone visit in Phase 2. Relative to the initial target
quit date (TQD; 7-days post-randomization), the 2 in-clinic counseling sessions in Phase 1 occurred 7 days prior and 34
days after the TQD, the latter being the point of re-randomization for Phase 2. The three phone sessions occurred at 1,
24-, and 30-days post TQD. Relative to the rerandomization visit, the one phone and 2 in-clinic visits for Phase 2
occurred 7, 21, and 42 days, respectively, post-rerandomization. Medication checks were conducted by phone (5
minutes) one day before and 3 after the TQD in Phase 1, and 3 and 14 days after re-randomization in Phase 2. The
counseling protocol was manual driven (available from author) and has been used in several of our previous studies 1–3.
Counseling content involved preparation for quitting, identification of high risk situations for smoking, development of
coping skills and direct support before and after the quit date, motivational intervention 4 for keeping or resetting a quit
date, management of withdrawal symptoms, and medication compliance. All counselors were trained as certified
tobacco treatment specialists.
eAppendix 2 Sample Size Estimation
Based on available data at the time this study was initiated16, we did not expect differences in abstinence
between the varenicline and NPL conditions at the end of Phase 1. However, we evaluated the differences between
Phase 1 treatments to provide appropriate clinical information regarding the initial treatment choice. Anticipated
probabilities of response at week 12 conditional on response/nonresponse at week 6 and subsequent continue or rerandomization were not directly available since a SMART trial like this one had never been done before. As such, we
derived the anticipated probabilities for each of the cells at EOT from data from available meta-analyses16 evaluating 12week continuous abstinence outcomes, since 7-day point prevalence information (our primary outcome) was not
available. Smoking cessation trials evaluating a new pharmacological treatment have often used continuous abstinence
over the last 4 weeks of treatment as the primary outcome. However, seven-day point prevalence abstinence was
selected as our primary outcome as it is most appropriate for this study design given that the second phase of treatment
is 6 weeks in duration in contrast to typical pharmacological treatment trials evaluating 12 weeks of the same

