6

treatments is p = 0.5. The randomization to the second-phase treatments for Phase I abstainers is a probability of p = 1:
they automatically remain on the same treatment. The non-abstinent participants at the end of Phase II are rerandomized to the continue, increase or switch conditions with probability p = 0.33. The inverse probability weights for
the Phase I analysis (i.e. six weeks) are 1/0.5 = 2.0. For the Phase II analysis (i.e. twelve weeks) the inverse probability
weights for the participants abstinent in Phase I are 1/(0.5*1) = 2. Analysis at the end of Phase II (i.e. twelve weeks) of
participants who were non-abstinent at the end of Phase I and re-randomized to continue, increase or switch were
1/(0.5*0.33) = 6.06. These inverse probability weights permitted recovery of the anticipated parameter values as
demonstrated in the simulations discussed in E-Table 1 and E-Table 2.
There are several discussions of inverse-probability weighting for SMART designs when only non-responders are
rerandomized5–7. Implementation of the models used R v. 4.3 using the brms package8–10. Specifically, the weights are
incorporated into the log-likelihood at the level of each observation: "Internally, this is implemented by multiplying the
log-posterior values of each observation by their corresponding weights11.

The coding procedures permitted identification of each salient effect. Specifically, at the initial randomization
varenicline and NPL was coded as 1 and -1 respectively. For the re-randomization: 1) non-responders receiving
continuation therapy were coded 1 while all other participants were coded 0; 2) non-responders receiving augmentation
were coded 1 versus 0 for all other participants; 3) non-responders re-randomized to switching treatment were coded -1
versus 0 for all other participants.
Data Analytic Models
Our primary analytical approach using Bayesian inference permits the assessment of the proposed alternative
hypotheses; estimates not available via a conventional Frequentist method. While Bayesian approaches permit direct
estimates of the probability that the alternative hypothesis is true given the data, the Frequentist approach estimates
the probability of the current data or data more extreme given that the null hypothesis is true12. This approach maps
well onto clinical reasoning, has been suggested by the FDA as an approach for improving methodological efficiency
conducting clinical research, and can provide probabilistic estimates that an effect exists even with smaller cell sizes13–15.

