5

medication (e.g. dual nicotine replacement or varenicline). Nevertheless, using continuous abstinence for our initial
estimates does provide a more conservative approach since continuous abstinence is typically lower than 7-day pp at
similar end points.
We also took the additional step of modeling a range of potential outcomes as opposed to a single point
estimate for abstinence at our primary endpoint. Given the uncertainty inherent in pre-existing empirical evidence and
even greater uncertainty for conditional probabilities of response based on clinical consensus and marginal estimates,
we elected to model probability distributions of the plausible effects (approximately +/- 2-17% points above or below
the point estimates for abstinence rate within each condition) rather than simple point-estimates. This approach allows
us to account for the uncertainty around any point estimate in our sample size calculations including the expected
effects and the anticipated precision of these estimates. Type I Errors, a Frequentist statistical concept, are less
applicable in Bayesian inference. Instead, the interpretation of the posterior probability is most salient: if a treatment
demonstrates 95% posterior probability of benefit, this means that there is a 5% chance that it will result in a lack of
benefit, or even in harm with the range of effect sizes covered by the posterior distribution indicating the degree to
which this is the case.
E-Figure 1 provides our initial prior point estimates and 95% credible intervals for the anticipated probability of
abstinence at 6 and 12 weeks, for each respective condition. These parameters correspond with the beta distributions
specified for each outcome ascertainment measurement. Monte Carlo simulations of clinical trial outcomes
incorporating sampling from these distributions was used to estimate the probability of detect effects, while accounting
for the uncertainty in effect size estimates. We used logistic regression to analyze the data generated from the specified
~Beta distributions for “power” estimates, using vague, neutral priors for the coefficients in the log form (~N(µ = 0, σ =
1000).
eAppendix 3 Inverse Probability Weighting Data Modeling and Prior Specification
Inverse probability weighting permitted unbiased effect size estimates in the context of re-randomization. The
inverse probability weights are based on the probabilities associated with the randomization steps. Given that these are
established by design, they are known quantities and set as fixed. The probability of randomization the Phase I

