                                             CALGB 70807



    9.6    Nutrition Self-Efficacy Scale
           The Nutrition Self-Efficacy scale assesses the degree to which individuals are confident
           that that they can control their nutrition (79). The scale assesses perceived self-efficacy,
           the confidence in one’s ability to meet one’s goals, and coping self-efficacy, defined as
           optimistic beliefs about one’s capability to deal with barriers that arise in plans. The scale
           consists of 5 items rated on a 5 point Likert scale, ranging from ‘very confident’ to ‘not
           confident at all’. Internal consistency was excellent (alpha coefficient = .87, n= 1,722).
           Evidence of validity was provided by the Nutritional Efficacy Scale correlating significantly
           with nutritional behavior (r =.34, p< .01) (80). Because quality of life or anxiety has not
           been formally evaluated in an AS population or in the setting of a randomized clinical trial
           among AS patients, a battery of scores will be assessed as exploratory variables, with
           scores at each time point and changes in scores over time assessed between the
           intervention and control groups using student’s t-test and linear regression modeling.

    9.7    Satisfaction with the MEAL Program
           At 12 and 24 months, those in the MEAL arm of the study will be asked to complete a
           series of questions about their satisfaction with the MEAL program (C-2008, CALGB
           70807 MEAL Study Counseling Evaluation Form). All but one question has been used in
           WHEL, (Women’s Healthy Eating and Living, the prior diet study on which this study is
           based). The MEAL Satisfaction Questionnaire, developed by Pierce and colleagues,
           includes 26 items with all items rated on Likert scales, with response categories varying
           by the type of question. The following areas of satisfaction are assessed: satisfaction with
           the nutritional plan, counseling calls, the counselor, the time and frequency of the calls,
           expectations that the diet will help to prevent recurrence and improve their overall health,
           barriers in attaining the dietary goals, and the difficulty encountered in changing and
           maintaining their diet. Internal consistency meets acceptable standards for the
           satisfaction with their food intake for the different types of food (5 questions, alpha
           coefficient = .71), satisfaction with the counselor (9 items, alpha coefficient = .87), and
           near an acceptable standard for the 2 items assessing how enjoyable and important the
           counseling calls have been (alpha coefficient = .69).




Version Date 09/26/18                                                                          Update #10
                                                   32
