                                               CALGB 70807


8.0    INTERVENTION
       The principal strategy to promote dietary change in the intervention arm will be a telephone
       counseling protocol with individualized, one-on-one assistance tailored to each participant.
       The intervention will last 24 months. Intervention participants will engage in a series of
       telephone-based diet counseling sessions throughout the study. The first phase of sessions
       will guide initial diet-change attempts, the second will help participants complete their diet
       changes, and the third and fourth phases will enable participants to maintain and monitor
       their diet changes. This highly structured, computer-assisted telephone counseling protocol
       will facilitate standardization of the intervention.

      8.1     Preregistration
            8.1.1 Contact information and QOL assessments: At preregistration participants will
                  complete the C-2010, MEAL Participant Contact Information Form. This form is to be
                  faxed by institutional staff to UCSD within 24 hours of preregistration.
                  All patients will be asked to complete the QOL instruments listed in Section 7.0.
                  These forms should be submitted to the Alliance Statistics and Data Center after the
                  run-in period and within 2 weeks of registration.

            8.1.2 Blood sample collection: In addition, all patients will be asked to provide a 6-hour
                  fasting blood sample for carotenoid and cholesterol analysis. This sample should not
                  be submitted until within 2 weeks after registration.

            8.1.3 Clinical assessments
                  Urologic assessment: At initial assessment, participants will be evaluated in a
                  urology clinic as per typical AS protocols and current standard of care (2-4, 11, 13).
                  Urological evaluations will be conducted by the GU Investigator or appropriate
                  designee at each site. The baseline visit will include a DRE to confirm clinical stage.
                  DRE will entail palpation of the posterior and posterolateral aspects of the entire
                  prostate in the standard fashion.
                  Height and weight must be obtained during preregistration. Below are recommended
                  guidelines to obtain these measurements in an accurate manner.
                  Height: Measure the participant’s height without shoes, using a stadiometer. Ask
                  participant to stand up with heels together and weight equally distributed. Ideally,
                  SDUWLFLSDQWVKHHOVEXWWRFNVVKRXOGHUVDQGKHDGVKRXOGDOOWRXFKWKHYHUWLFDOERDUG
                  however, in some cases this may not be possible. In this event, take the measurement
                  with buttocks and heels touching the vertical board, or with head and buttocks
                  touching the vertical board. Ask the participant to breath in deeply at which juncture
                  the movable headboard should be placed on the head with only enough pressure to
                  slightly compress the hair. Record height to the nearest 0.25 inch, rounding down.
                  Weight: Weigh each participant on a medical balance or electronic scale in light
                  clothing without shoes. Each participant should be weighed on the same scale
                  throughout the study. Place the scale on a level uncarpeted floor surface. Before each
                  weighing, check the scale to confirm that it reads zero in the absence of a load, and if
                  necessary adjust it to read zero. If the participant’s feet are bare, one may place a
                  disposable paper towel on the scale platform. Ask the participant to stand still on the
                  scale platform, arms down at their sides, and feet centered on the platform with
                  weight evenly distributed. Record weight to the nearest pound.

      8.2     Run-In
              Eligible patients will be contacted by UCSD staff within a week to schedule a series of
              three 24-hour dietary recalls which will be completed within 3 weeks.

      8.3     Registration/Randomization
              Upon completion of the run-in, UCSD staff will notify the site and the study Data
              Coordinator about patient eligibility. Eligible patients who successfully completed the
Version Date 09/26/18                                                                           Update #10
                                                     24
