       Coordinating Center      Cornell           Coordinates and oversees research activities across sites;
                                                  Inter-site Coordinator communicates with and monitors activities of
                                                   site raters and reports to Principal Investigators;
                                                  Assures adherence to the Study Manual;
                                                  Assures completeness and quality of data; manages data base;
                                                  Chairs Steering Committee and Publication Committee;
                                                  Communicates with regulatory bodies and external agencies
       Recruitment,             University        Develops the Study Manual;
       Assessment, and          of Toronto;       Coordinates training on clinical assessments and reliability testing
       Adherence                Cornell            in collaboration with the Cornell Inter-site Project Coordinator;
                                                  Provides leadership for monitoring recruitment, retention, and
                                                   medication adherence; coordinates strategies to overcome
                                                   obstacles

       Neuropsychological       Pittsburgh        Conducts training and annual re-training on neuropsychological
       Training                                    assessments and coordinates analyses of test results
       Methodology, Data        Cornell           Provides centralized data management for all sites;
       Management and                             Provides methodological leadership and consultation (e.g., blinding,
       Data Analysis                               consistency across sites, reliability assessments);
                                                  Provides biostatistical leadership for analyses of project data
       Pharmacokinetics         Toronto           Oversees quality assurance efforts regarding sample acquisition,
       and                                         pre-processing, and storage;
       Pharmacogenetics                           Carries out all pharmacokinetic and pharmacogenetic assays;
                                                  Applies population pharmacokinetic modeling to the drug
                                                   concentration data
843
844   4.1.4 Roles and Responsibilities of PIs: The principal investigators will be responsible for hiring, training,
845   and supervising research staff at their respective sites, overseeing the recruitment and retention of patients at
846   their sites, overseeing the quality of data collection, and ensuring that data are sent to the Coordinating Center
847   in a timely manner. In addition, each of the principal investigators will be members of the study’s Steering
848   Committee and Publications Sub-Committee.
849
850   In addition to these general responsibilities, the investigators will have specific functions. Dr. Meyers will lead
851   the Coordinating Center, which will coordinate the research activities at the 4 sites. He will oversee the work of
852   the project coordinator, who will be a Ph.D. clinical psychologist, and the data manager. He collaborate with Dr
853   Andy Leon, who will serve as the study’s statistician/methodologist. Along with Dr. Flint, he will co-chair the
854   study’s Steering Committee. He will chair weekly telephone conference calls attended by the PIs, the
855   Coordinating Center’s staff, and the NIH project officer, and prepare minutes summarizing the discussion and
856   action items arising from each of these calls. Dr. Meyers and Coordinating Center staff under his supervision
857   will prepare quarterly reports and if needed, interim reports, for the NIMH Data and Safety Monitoring Board,
858   communicate with the NIMH project officer, and monitor the study’s overall budget.
859
860   Dr. Flint will be responsible for overseeing development of the manual of study operations and case record
861   forms, overseeing overall recruitment of participants across sites, and overseeing both rater training and
862   assurance of inter-rater reliability across sites. These responsibilities will be carried out in collaboration with the
863   inter-site project coordinator under the direction of Dr. Meyers. Drs. Flint and Meyers collaborated successfully
864   in the implementation and operations of the recently completed STOP-PD. Dr. Flint will work with Gary Lewis
865   M.D., the endocrinologist consultant at the University of Toronto, in coordinating the analyses of the metabolic
866   data and interpreting these data.
867
868   Dr. Mulsant, who has appointments at both the University of Toronto and University of Pittsburgh, will oversee
869   the genetic and pharmacometric aspects of the study. He will collaborate closely with Drs. Kennedy and
870   Pollock, both based at CAMH in Toronto, with respect to all aspects of these analyses, and will take the lead in
871   preparing reports pertaining to these data.
                                                                                                                          18
