843
844
845
846
847
848
849
850
851
852
853
854
855
856
857
858
859
860
861
862
863
864
865
866
867
868
869
870
871

Coordinating Center

Recruitment,
Assessment, and
Adherence

Cornell

University
of Toronto;
Cornell











Neuropsychological
Training
Methodology, Data
Management and
Data Analysis
Pharmacokinetics
and
Pharmacogenetics

Pittsburgh



Cornell




Toronto






Coordinates and oversees research activities across sites;
Inter-site Coordinator communicates with and monitors activities of
site raters and reports to Principal Investigators;
Assures adherence to the Study Manual;
Assures completeness and quality of data; manages data base;
Chairs Steering Committee and Publication Committee;
Communicates with regulatory bodies and external agencies
Develops the Study Manual;
Coordinates training on clinical assessments and reliability testing
in collaboration with the Cornell Inter-site Project Coordinator;
Provides leadership for monitoring recruitment, retention, and
medication adherence; coordinates strategies to overcome
obstacles
Conducts training and annual re-training on neuropsychological
assessments and coordinates analyses of test results
Provides centralized data management for all sites;
Provides methodological leadership and consultation (e.g., blinding,
consistency across sites, reliability assessments);
Provides biostatistical leadership for analyses of project data
Oversees quality assurance efforts regarding sample acquisition,
pre-processing, and storage;
Carries out all pharmacokinetic and pharmacogenetic assays;
Applies population pharmacokinetic modeling to the drug
concentration data

4.1.4 Roles and Responsibilities of PIs: The principal investigators will be responsible for hiring, training,
and supervising research staff at their respective sites, overseeing the recruitment and retention of patients at
their sites, overseeing the quality of data collection, and ensuring that data are sent to the Coordinating Center
in a timely manner. In addition, each of the principal investigators will be members of the study’s Steering
Committee and Publications Sub-Committee.
In addition to these general responsibilities, the investigators will have specific functions. Dr. Meyers will lead
the Coordinating Center, which will coordinate the research activities at the 4 sites. He will oversee the work of
the project coordinator, who will be a Ph.D. clinical psychologist, and the data manager. He collaborate with Dr
Andy Leon, who will serve as the study’s statistician/methodologist. Along with Dr. Flint, he will co-chair the
study’s Steering Committee. He will chair weekly telephone conference calls attended by the PIs, the
Coordinating Center’s staff, and the NIH project officer, and prepare minutes summarizing the discussion and
action items arising from each of these calls. Dr. Meyers and Coordinating Center staff under his supervision
will prepare quarterly reports and if needed, interim reports, for the NIMH Data and Safety Monitoring Board,
communicate with the NIMH project officer, and monitor the study’s overall budget.
Dr. Flint will be responsible for overseeing development of the manual of study operations and case record
forms, overseeing overall recruitment of participants across sites, and overseeing both rater training and
assurance of inter-rater reliability across sites. These responsibilities will be carried out in collaboration with the
inter-site project coordinator under the direction of Dr. Meyers. Drs. Flint and Meyers collaborated successfully
in the implementation and operations of the recently completed STOP-PD. Dr. Flint will work with Gary Lewis
M.D., the endocrinologist consultant at the University of Toronto, in coordinating the analyses of the metabolic
data and interpreting these data.
Dr. Mulsant, who has appointments at both the University of Toronto and University of Pittsburgh, will oversee
the genetic and pharmacometric aspects of the study. He will collaborate closely with Drs. Kennedy and
Pollock, both based at CAMH in Toronto, with respect to all aspects of these analyses, and will take the lead in
preparing reports pertaining to these data.
18

