927
928
929
930
931
932
933
934
935
936
937
938
939
940
941
942
943
944
945
946
947
948
949
950
951
952
953
954
955
956
957
958
959
960
961
962
963
964
965
966
967
968
969
970
971
972
973
974
975
976
977
978
979
980
981

During the start-up phase, the data manager and Dr. Leon will help standardize data collection forms and data
auditing procedures across the four sites in collaboration with the Cornell Inter-Site Project Coordinator. The
data management team has developed a set of standards and procedures for data entry and checking and for
the documentation of data sets generated for statistical analysis. These methods, which assure the integrity of
study data, are described below. In addition to preparing and then locking data sets that report results from this
project, the data manager will analyze results of the annual rater inter-rater reliability assessments. He will
also oversee and execute procedures for data security and access, data quality control, storage, and back-up,
and will provide periodic reports of accrual, follow-up, and summary statistics as required by the Data Safety
Monitoring Board (DSMB).
Data Integrity: Sites will send original copies of de-identified hard data to the data management team at Cornell
by overnight shipping every second week. Sites will retain hard copies of these records. The de-identified hard
data will be stored in a locked filing cabinet stored in a locked office to further protect subject anonymity.
Results will be published as group data without the use of characteristics that would identify individual subjects.
Data auditing, entry and quality control will be carried out at Cornell under the supervision of the data
management team. The Cornell data management team has many years of experience in data management
and coordination of multi-study, multi-site research projects. The data management team has developed an
infrastructure that supports the design of and standardization of databases, data entry, data quality control, and
preparation of data for statistical analysis. This expertise will be applied in implementing a system that assures
the quality of data entry, storage, verification, and validation, and the reporting of data from this study. This will
involve consultation with the study’s statistician on the design of study databases and other issues related to
the study's data management infrastructure. Emphasis will be given to incorporate database components that
were used in STOP-PD because the proposed project is also a randomized controlled trial and uses variables
that overlap with those used in STOP-PD. This system will also support the tracking of subjects and data at
the individual sites. The Cornell data management team will maintain regular communication with site study
coordinators to ensure that data collection is complete and accurate. Regularly scheduled, and as needed,
communications between the inter-site project coordinator at Cornell, the data manager, and raters and
investigators will be used to clarify inconsistencies and ambiguities in data submitted to Cornell.
A project team dedicated to the study led by the study’s statistician will oversee all data management and
quality assurance procedures, including coordination across sites. All data management resources used at
Cornell in the multi-site and single site studies conducted through the Geriatric Institute will be made available
to the proposed study. Data management resources will be devoted to overall quality assurance including:
maintaining interview schedules and subject tracking, monitoring scale completion, monitoring the accuracy of
scale completion and data entry, analyzing results of inter-rater reliability assessments as instructed by the
investigators, and developing and maintaining a dataset for use in analyses that have been approved by the
Publications Sub-Committee. The data management staff has automated many data management steps,
which will facilitate the development of the database and the standardization of databases and procedures
across sites. For example, several steps in database design have been automated previously so that when the
database of the proposed study is set up, it will have a standard structure, with all tables set up the same way
and variables named following a standard convention. The data management team has also has developed a
set of standards and procedures for documentation of data sets produced for statistical analysis.
To assure that the entry of subject data is accurate, the data management team audits 100% of the data
turned in by research assistants and investigators for necessary identifiers, item completeness and
consistency of major clinical indicators. Audits include such factors as diagnosis, depression severity (Ham-D)
and whether the severity score is consistent with the diagnosis. Data are audited and tracked by scale. To
date, the auditing system at Cornell has tracked over 170,000 individual scales representing all studies
conducted at Cornell. These data have been contributed by users of the Advanced Center for Services and
Intervention Center (Dr. Alexopoulos); through various R24 research infrastructure grants (Dr. Meyers and Dr.
Bruce); through the two U01 grants led by Cornell investigators (Dr. Meyers and Dr. Young); and by
investigators conducting R01s at Cornell. When problems are found (approximately 6% of scales), the
instrument is returned to the interviewer. Also, errors are entered into a report, which is then sent to the
relevant site’s coordinator. The coordinator is responsible for ensuring the errors are corrected within two
20

