Research Original Investigation

Effect of Early Sustained Prophylactic Hypothermia on Neurologic Outcomes in Patients With Severe TBI

it targets hypothermia of 35°C to 33°C, longer cooling (>48
hours), and slower rewarming (<0.25°C/h). Although the Eurotherm3235 trial of late-rescue hypothermia for adult patients with traumatic brain injury with intracranial hypertension reported harm, 1 1 it did not address the effect of
prophylactic hypothermia after severe traumatic brain injury. A large high-quality trial addressing the limitations of prophylactic hypothermia trials was required to inform clinical
practice and resolve clinician uncertainty.
To our knowledge, this study is the largest trial of prophylactic hypothermia after traumatic brain injury to date. The study
design accounted for limitations of previous trials of prophylactic hypothermia.7,8,16,32 The protocol included early induction and
maintenance of hypothermia for at least 72 hours, followed by individually titrated rewarming. The time from injury to initiating
hypothermia was short (median, 1.8 hours). The median time to
reach 33°C was greater than 10 hours, reflecting a clinical reality
that hypothermia therapy below 35°C in trauma patients requires
time for exclusion of undiagnosed injuries. This time also implies
that laboratory trials of hypothermia may not translate to trauma
patients. Most patients in the hypothermia group remained hypothermic in excess of 48 hours.8 The findings of the as-treated
analyses demonstrated that crossover of patients who were rewarmed prematurely between groups did not obscure a beneficial effect of hypothermia. Most patients were rewarmed slowly
(median, 22.5 hours), without significant elevation in intracranial pressure, whereas 34 patients had rewarming paused because
of increased intracranial pressure (eFigure 1 in Supplement 2). Furthermore, there was no effect of hypothermia on intracranial pressure or on elevated intracranial pressure therapy intensity. This
trial suggested that prophylactic hypothermia is not neuroprotective after severe traumatic brain injury.

ARTICLE INFORMATION
Accepted for Publication: October 8, 2018.
Published Online: October 24, 2018.
doi:10.1001/jama.2018.17075
Correction: This article was updated on November
12, 2018, to correct the mention of the IMPACT-TBI
score in the Methods section.
Author Affiliations: Australian and New Zealand
Intensive Care Research Centre, Monash University,
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia (Cooper, Nichol,
Bailey, Gantner, Higgins, Huet, Murray, Newby,
Presneill, Stephenson, Vallance, Webb, Trapani,
McArthur); Departments of Intensive Care, Alfred
Hospital, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia (Cooper,
Nichol, Bernard, Gantner, Vallance, Trapani); Irish
Critical Care Clinical Trials Network, University
College Dublin-Clinical Research Centre at St
Vincent’s University Hospital, Dublin, Ireland
(Nichol); Department of Anaesthesia and Intensive
Care Medicine, St Vincent's University Hospital,
Dublin, Ireland (Nichol); School of Medicine and
Medical Sciences, University College Dublin, Dublin,
Ireland (Nichol); Ambulance Victoria, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia (Bernard, Stephenson); School of
Public Health and Preventive Medicine, Monash
University, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia
(Cameron, Forbes, Kasza); Centre of Excellence in
Traumatic Brain Injury Research, Monash
University, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia

2218

Prolonged hypothermia has been suggested to be
immunosuppressive,12 and the per-protocol analyses found increased risk of pneumonia in the hypothermia group. There were
also 3 episodes of propofol-related infusion syndrome. This often fatal syndrome may be more likely during hypothermia because of reduced hepatic metabolism of propofol.33

Limitations
This trial has several limitations. First, a significant number of
patients in the hypothermia group never reached the target temperature of 33°C (19% had hypothermia withdrawn early and a
further 13% did not reach 33°C). This reflects the enrollment of
patients without severe traumatic brain injury in the out-ofhospital setting before full evaluation, palliation of unsurvivable injuries, or neurosurgical concerns about hypothermia in
injuries with significant risk of further intracranial bleeding. Second, clinicians and patients’ families were not blinded to the intervention. Although this may have introduced bias, the use of
trained blinded outcomes assessors minimized this potential.
Third, bedside clinicians had the option not to enroll patients
if they believed it was not in the patients’ best interests. Although this may have introduced bias, it is an essential part of
the ethical conduct of trials in the critically ill.

Conclusions
Among patients with severe traumatic brain injury, early prophylactic hypothermia compared with normothermia did not
improve neurologic outcomes at 6 months. These findings
do not support the use of early prophylactic hypothermia for
patients with severe traumatic brain injury.

(Cameron, Gantner); Emergency Medicine, Hamad
Medical Corporation, Dhueta, Qatar (Cameron);
Emergency and Trauma Centre, Alfred Hospital,
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia (Cameron); Service
de Réanimation Chirurgicale, Pôle d'Anesthésie et
Réanimation Chirurgicale, Centre Hospitalier
Universitaire de Besancon, Besançon, France
(Pili-Floury); Department of Anaesthesia and
Intensive Care Medicine, Hôpital de La Cavale
Blanche, CHRU de Brest, Brest, France (Huet); UFR
de médecine et des sciences de la santé, Université
de Bretagne Occidenta, Brest, France (Huet);
Department of Critical Care Medicine, Auckland City
Hospital, Auckland, New Zealand (Newby,
McArthur); Intensive Care Unit, Royal Melbourne
Hospital, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia (Presneill);
Department of Medicine, University of Melbourne,
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia (Presneill);
Queensland Ambulance Service, Brisbane,
Queensland, Australia (Rashford); Neurosurgery,
Alfred Hospital, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia
(Rosenfeld); Department of Surgery, Monash
University, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia
(Rosenfeld, Varma); Department of Surgery, F.
Edward Hébert School of Medicine, Uniformed
Services University of the Health Sciences,
Bethesda, Maryland (Rosenfeld); Radiology, Alfred
Hospital, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia (Varma);
Intensive Care Unit, Royal Perth Hospital, Perth,
Western Australia, Australia (Webb).

Author Contributions: Drs Cooper and Nichol
had full access to all of the data in the study and
take responsibility for the integrity of the data
and the accuracy of the data analysis. Drs Cooper
and Nichol contributed equally to this article
as co-first authors.
Concept and design: Cooper, Nichol, Bernard,
Cameron, Forbes, Gantner, Murray, Presneill,
Rosenfeld, Stephenson, Webb, Trapani,
McArthur.
Acquisition, analysis, or interpretation of data:
Cooper, Nichol, Bailey, Bernard, Cameron,
Pili-Floury, Forbes, Gantner, Higgins, Huet, Kasza,
Murray, Newby, Presneill, Rashford, Rosenfeld,
Vallance, Varma, Webb, Trapani, McArthur.
Drafting of the manuscript: Cooper, Nichol, Bailey,
Bernard, Forbes, Gantner, Higgins, Huet, Presneill,
Rosenfeld, Vallance, Trapani, McArthur.
Critical revision of the manuscript for important
intellectual content: Cooper, Nichol, Bernard,
Cameron, Pili-Floury, Forbes, Higgins, Huet, Kasza,
Murray, Newby, Presneill, Rashford, Rosenfeld,
Stephenson, Varma, Webb, Trapani, McArthur.
Statistical analysis: Nichol, Bailey, Forbes, Gantner,
Higgins, Presneill, Trapani, McArthur.
Obtained funding: Cooper, Nichol, Bernard,
Cameron, Rosenfeld, Webb.
Administrative, technical, or material support:
Nichol, Cameron, Forbes, Higgins, Kasza,
Murray, Newby, Rashford, Stephenson,
Trapani, McArthur.

JAMA December 4, 2018 Volume 320, Number 21 (Reprinted)

© 2018 American Medical Association. All rights reserved.

Downloaded from jamanetwork.​com by University of Arizona Health Sciences Library user on 08/​20/​2026

jama.com

