Multi-centre POLAR study_ANZIC-RC/DJC003 Version 9 _ 11 July 2017

A monitoring report will be prepared following each visit and reviewed by the management committee.
A copy of the report will be sent to the principal investigator and study coordinator at the site and will be
filed in the site investigator file.
Medical records, any other relevant source documents and the site investigator files must be made
available to the monitor for these monitoring visits during the course of the study and at the completion
of the study as needed.

14.5. Aims of monitoring visits:


Check the accuracy of the database by performing source data verification of the CRF against
the original source documents.



Check for protocol violations or deviations and report these to the chief investigator as necessary.



Review secondary outcome data available for each patient.



Confirm the consent procedures approved by the site’s HREC have been followed and view each
original signed consent form.



Check data security and access.



Review all serious adverse events (SAEs) and follow up all reported SAEs.



Review investigator site files for completeness and accuracy.



Assist the study staff with any queries or problems they may have in relation to the study.

15. STATISTICAL CONSIDERATIONS
15.1. Sample size calculation
15.1.1. Sample size and power calculations (primary outcome)
The recent prospective studies (RSI7, SAFE-TBI5 and ATBIS4) found a weighted mean rate of current
favourable neurological outcomes of 50% in Australian and New Zealand patients with severe TBI.
15.1.2. Original sample size calculations
A beneficial effect of prophylactic hypothermia in severe TBI of 30% relative risk increase (RRI) from
50% to 65% (15% absolute risk increase (ARI)) in favourable neurological outcome at 6 months following
injury would be a clinically relevant and important effect. Based on these figures, a study of fixed size
with full compliance and follow-up would require 364 patients (182 in each of two treatment arms) to
have an 80% two-sided power to detect a 15% ARI (from 50% to 65%) in favourable neurological
outcome at 6 months following injury. This is a plausible and conservative estimate, based on:
A recent meta-analysis1 in severe traumatic brain injury comparing prophylactic hypothermia to
normothermia which demonstrated a 46% improvement of favourable outcomes (RR 1.46, 95% CI 1.12
to 1.92, p=0.006).
A finding of a 50% increase (p=0.02) in favourable outcomes in a sub-group of patients with severe
traumatic brain injury <45 years of age who were hypothermic on arrival and subsequently randomised
to hypothermia versus normothermia.1,9
A 30% RRI in favourable neurological outcomes is approximately two-thirds of the RRI demonstrated
elsewhere.11 If prophylactic hypothermia were proven to be beneficial, such a difference in neurological
outcomes would be highly clinically significant (NNT=7) and would lead to a widespread change in
management of severe TBI patients in Australia and internationally.
To ensure availability of the required number of evaluable patients, the sample size will be inflated to
account for losses to follow-up, withdrawal of hypothermia, due to contraindications and interim data
analysis. Allowing an overall proportion of 5% loss to long term follow up (previous CTG studies and
HTS of 1%), expands the sample size to 384 patients. Furthermore, based on pilot data (ATBIS)4,11,
allowance for a 12% rate of withdrawal of the hypothermic intervention for patients randomised to
hypothermia (8% bleeding, 2% withdrawal of surrogate / physician consent (previous pre-hospital trials
(HTS)46 <1%), and an estimated 2% rate of inappropriate paramedics enrolment (i.e. cardiovascular
accident not TBI) increases the sample size to 496 patients. In addition the trivial 0.7% sample size
inflation factor associated with use of two interim Haybittle-Peto analysis adds a requirement for two
more subjects. The trial recruitment target is 500 subjects.

Page 31 of 86
Confidential

