Multi-centre POLAR study_ANZIC-RC/DJC003 Version 9 _ 11 July 2017

(RR 0.76, 95% CI 0.05 to 1.05, p=0.18) in patients treated with prophylactic hypothermia compared to
normothermia.
Figure 1 9

The only published multi-centre hypothermia trial1 reported no improvement in outcomes in patients
treated with prophylactic hypothermia. This trial was well conducted but had key methodological
limitations.
First, there was an average delay of 8.4 hours in attaining the target temperature.1 This delay was largely
due to inferior cooling technology and this may have confounded detection of a protective effect. The
subgroup of patients in this trial who were initially hypothermic and then randomised to hypothermia had
a significant long-term neurological advantage compared to normothermia.1,25 Future trials should
induce hypothermia as early as possible and ideally at the location of the traumatic event. There is
considerable Australian and international experience with paramedic-initiated early hypothermia for
cardiac arrest, and this experience can be applied to severe TBI patients. 26,27
Second, in severe TBI the generalised swelling of brain tissue frequently persists for over 48 hours. It
is therefore likely that therapeutic levels of hypothermia lasting for only 48 hours (in the Clifton trial 1)
were insufficient. This assertion is supported by the BTF meta-analysis finding that trials of prophylactic
hypothermia longer than 48 hours were associated with significantly reduced mortality (RR 0.51; 95%
CI 0.34 to 0.78).9 Therapeutic levels of hypothermia should be induced in excess of 48 hours, which
has been well tolerated in patients with severe TBI.28
Third, the Clifton trial withdrew hypothermia on a time-based trigger rather than according to a
physiological trigger 1. Rewarming of patients despite increases in intracranial pressure is not
considered optimal clinical practice.29 Hypothermia should be withdrawn using a physiological trigger
(i.e. ICP) and over a prolonged period to avoid uncontrolled intracranial hypertension. 29
Fourth, the Clifton trial induced and maintained hypothermia using cooling blankets and bags of ice.
This practice is associated with difficulty achieving a constant patient temperature and problems
targeting gradual re-warming. The recent development of electronically controlled surface (skin) cooling
pads through which cold water is channelled has revolutionised the controlled induction, maintenance
and ultimate emergence from hypothermia.
Finally, the lack of a ‘run in’ period, lack of protocolised brain specific care, the inclusion of low-enrolment
centres and the large inter-centre variance in the Clifton trial1 may have further confounded the detection
of a protective effect. Interestingly, when the problematic Clifton trial was excluded from the BTF metaanalysis, a pooled estimate demonstrated a significant reduction of mortality (RR 0.64; 95%CI 0.46 to
0.89).9
7.1.5. Potential adverse effects and complications of hypothermia
Despite a temperature of 33°C being perhaps the ideal balance of therapeutic effect and potential
adverse side-effects,13 it is important to consider the potential complications, specifically coagulopathy
and infection. Hypothermia may prolong clotting times and alter platelet function and this could lead to
increased blood loss. However, this may not significantly increase bleeding in the context of severe
TBI.30 Future trials of prophylactic hypothermia such as this one should include a strategy to minimise
potential risks of bleeding. For example, induction of mild hypothermia (minimum temperature 35°C) in
the field to optimise brain protection, while limiting the risk of coagulopathy prior to a robust assessment
of bleeding in the Emergency Department (ED). Meta-analyses reported increased pneumonia in
patients cooled for prolonged periods.31 While it has previously been demonstrated in a small study that
this increased rate of infection did not increase mortality,28 any future trial should incorporate optimal
standard of care measures to reduce infectious complications.
Hypothermia decreases clearance of drugs that are cleared by the liver. These include propofol,
midazolam and morphine which will accumulate over time unless doses are reduced.40

Page 19 of 86
Confidential

