RATE-AF Trial Protocol                                                      Version 3.0, 25th July 2019


        3.2 Primary objective

            x   Patient-reported quality of life (QoL), with a predefined focus on physical well-being using
                the SF-36 physical component summary at six months.
        3.3 Secondary objectives

            x   Generic and AF-specific patient-reported QoL using the SF-36 global and domain-specific
                scores, the AFEQT overall score and the EQ-5D-5L summary index and visual analogue
                scale at six and twelve months.
            x   Echocardiographic left-ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) and diastolic function (E/e’ and
                composite of diastolic indices) at twelve months.
            x   Functional assessment, including 6-minute walking distance achieved, change in European
                Heart Rhythm Association (EHRA) class and cognitive function at six and twelve months.
            x   Change in B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) levels as a surrogate for total cardiac strain at
                six months.
            x   Change in heart rate from baseline and group comparison using 24-hour ambulatory ECG.


        3.4 Feasibility objectives

            x   Successful methods for recruitment

            x   Key issues that affect retention of participants, such as convenience, compliance and cross-
                over (target of 85% study completion rate).
            x   Drug discontinuation rate and adverse reactions leading to drug discontinuation.
            x   Therapy-induced requirement for additional treatment (e.g. pacemaker implantation).
            x   Population-specific standard deviations and proportions to enable sample size calculation
                for a future trial.
            x   Assessment of cardiovascular outcomes including a composite of adverse clinical events
                (mortality, thromboembolic events, myocardial infarction and cardiovascular interventions).


        3.5 Exploratory objectives

            x   Correlation of baseline measures, including QoL questionnaires and unblinded baseline
                investigations such as QoL, BNP, LVEF, E/e’, EHRA, intracellular methods and heart rate.
            x   Impact of therapy on intracellular sodium and calcium concentration and cardiotonic steroid
                levels as biomarkers of cellular response at six and twelve months.
            x   Impact of combination therapy on outcomes, including comparison of bisoprolol/non-
                dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker (CCB) vs. bisoprolol/digoxin vs. digoxin/CCB vs.
                single therapies.
            x   Change in cognitive function at twelve months


EudraCT No.: 2015-005043-13                                                                   Page 22 of 69
