Research Original Investigation

was not used for the trial because it is not an FDA-approved
method of surfactant administration. A maximum of 2 doses of
study drug could be administered before 50 hours postnatal age,
with the second dose containing budesonide (1 mL/kg) and surfactant (1.25 mL/kg). The study drug was administered by an
unmasked (due to need for mixing of study drug) respiratory
therapist or qualified designee out of sight of other staff, so other
caregivers and researchers remained masked to treatment allocation. Infants receiving more than 2 surfactant doses within
50 hours after birth could receive additional doses of openlabel surfactant at clinician discretion.
Administration of systemic steroids within less than 7 days
of last dose of study drug was discouraged and reserved at clinician discretion for infants with fluid-resistant/vasopressorresistant hypotension or evidence of hyponatremia with low serum cortisol concentration (per local definitions). Other clinical
practices were per usual clinical protocol and clinician preference.

Outcomes
The primary outcome was the composite of physiologic
BPD6,27,28 or death by 36 weeks’ postmenstrual age. Physiologic BPD was defined as receiving mechanical ventilation or
continuous positive airway pressure, oxygen by hood at fraction of inspired oxygen (FIO2) greater than 0.3, oxygen by nasal cannula at an effective FIO2 greater than 0.3 (calculated using
conversion tables), or failing oxygen reduction challenge from
FIO2 less than 0.3 by hood or effective FIO2 less than 0.3 by cannula (eAppendix in Manual of Operations and Generic Database Manual [Supplement 2]; adjudication was not necessary
for this validated definition). Infants discharged home or transferred out of network before 36 weeks’ postmenstrual age were
assessed for physiologic BPD based on the level of respiratory
support at discharge or transfer.
Secondary outcomes assessed at 36 weeks’ postmenstrual age included death; physiologic BPD; BPD severity
(ordinal)7; grade 3 BPD7; and postnatal steroid use from 7 days
after last dose of study drug through 36 weeks’ postmenstrual age.
Multiple exploratory outcomes were also evaluated
(Protocol in Supplement 1): BPD severity by the National Institutes of Health Workshop definition9; days receiving mechanical ventilation by 28 postnatal days; days receiving invasive mechanical ventilation by 36 weeks’ postmenstrual age; intubation
after 50 postnatal hours and within the first 28 days; intubation after 50 hours and before 36 weeks’ postmenstrual age; and
repeat administration of surfactant doses after 50 hours and
within 7 days of last dose of study drug. Additional outcomes
analyzed include common clinical outcomes assessed through
120 postnatal days and standardized growth metrics at 36 weeks’
postmenstrual age. Analyses of survival without physiologic
BPD at 36 weeks’ postmenstrual age were conducted within subgroups defined by baseline characteristics.
Prespecified adverse events (defined in the protocol in
Supplement 1 and Manual of Operations in Supplement 2)
considered likely to be associated with study intervention
were monitored within 7 days of last dose of study drug. These
included hyperglycemia, hypertension, prolonged hypoxemia with bradycardia, endotracheal tube blockage, and any
1454

Early Intratracheal Budesonide for Bronchopulmonary Dysplasia

other adverse event deemed moderate or worse in severity.
Moderate hyperglycemia was defined as blood glucose level
120 mg/dL (6.66 mmol/L) to 180 mg/dL (9.99 mmol/L) on
2 consecutive determinations at least 6 hours apart or more
than 2 determinations within a 24-hour period with no inbetween normal range values. Severe hyperglycemia was defined as blood glucose level greater than 180 mg/dL. Spontaneous intestinal perforation and periventricular leukomalacia
within 30 days of final drug administration were also monitored as prespecified adverse events. Several risks of prematurity were monitored within 7 days of last study drug (hypotension, pulmonary air leak, culture-positive sepsis, and
intracranial hemorrhage).

Sample Size Estimation and Statistical Analysis
A detailed statistical analysis plan for the BiB trial is available
in Supplement 3.
Sample size calculations were based on the primary outcome. Based on the 20% or greater absolute risk reduction observed by prior RCTs18,19 and the observed incidence of BPD
or death of 58% at participating sites, BiB was designed to detect an absolute risk reduction of 10% (from 58% to 48%), corresponding to a relative risk (RR) of 0.83. Simulation studies
for the primary analysis method indicated that a sample size
of 550 per group (1100 total) would attain 90% power for an
overall type I error of .05. Accounting for 5% attrition for the
primary outcome, the planned sample size was 1160 infants.
The primary analysis compared the proportion of infants
who died or developed BPD at 36 weeks’ postmenstrual age
using a robust Poisson regression model.29,30 Randomization
stratification factors of center and gestational age (<26 or ≥26
weeks) were included as fixed explanatory variables in the
model. The primary outcome analysis was performed at
α = .049 to adjust for multiplicity of interim efficacy analyses
and preserve an overall type I error rate of α = .05. Analyses
of the primary, secondary and exploratory efficacy outcomes were based on intention-to-treat (ITT), unless otherwise specified. In contrast, safety, clinical, and growth
outcomes were analyzed based on actual treatment received
(“as-treated” population). Secondary and exploratory dichotomous outcomes were analyzed with the robust Poisson
methods described for the primary outcome. For models
with convergence or fit issues, the RR was estimated by the
Mantel-Haenszel common odds ratio, stratified by the crossclassification of center and gestational age strata, or by the
crude odds ratio (unadjusted) and Fisher exact test. Continuous outcomes estimated adjusted mean difference via linear
regression; count outcomes were analyzed as continuous outcomes using robust variance estimation. Comparisons of secondary outcomes between study groups should be considered exploratory.

Results
Trial Population
Patients were randomized from April 2021 to June 2024. When
641 infants (55.3% of 1160 planned) had been enrolled from

JAMA October 28, 2025 Volume 334, Number 16 (Reprinted)

jama.com

© 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.

Downloaded from jamanetwork.com by University of Arizona Health Sciences Library user on 07/23/2026

