Early Intratracheal Budesonide for Bronchopulmonary Dysplasia

I

nfants born extremely preterm (<29 weeks’ gestation) or
with birth weight 1000 g or less are at high risk of mortality and morbidity.1,2 Bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD),
the most common serious morbidity in such extremely preterm infants,2 is associated with long-term adverse respiratory3
and neurodevelopmental outcomes.4,5 BPD is defined by the
magnitude of respiratory support and supplemental oxygen
postnatally at 36 weeks’ postmenstrual age6-9 and characterized pathologically by impairment of lung development.10
While survival of extremely preterm infants has improved in
recent decades, the incidence of BPD has stayed constant or
increased.2,11,12
Inflammation due to hyperoxia, oxidative stress, ventilation-associated lung injury, and chorioamnionitis likely contributes to BPD.13 Systemic corticosteroids administered soon
after birth (age <7 days) reduce the combined outcome of BPD
or death (BPD/death) before 36 weeks’ postmenstrual age but
also increase gastrointestinal perforation and cerebral palsy.14
Direct intratracheal instillation of the corticosteroid budesonide mixed with surfactant reduces lung injury in preterm animal models.15-17 In preterm infants, intratracheal instillation
of budesonide mixed with surfactant reduced BPD/death in
small randomized clinical trials (RCTs) 18,19 and in metaanalyses including these trials.20-22 This evidence led to the
design and implementation of 2 large multicenter trials conducted nearly simultaneously to evaluate the benefits and risks
of combining budesonide with surfactant in extremely preterm infants—the Preventing Lung Disease Using Surfactant + Steroid (PLUSS)23 and the Budesonide in Babies (BiB)
trials. The PLUSS trial (conducted in Australia, New Zealand,
Canada, and Singapore) found no difference in survival free
of BPD.23 The BiB trial reported here was conducted in the
United States to test the hypothesis that intratracheal administration of budesonide with surfactant, vs surfactant alone,
would reduce the frequency of physiologic BPD/death by 36
weeks’ postmenstrual age in extremely preterm infants.

Methods
Trial Design and Oversight
The BiB trial was a multicenter, double-masked RCT with 1:1
parallel allocation to budesonide with surfactant (poractant
alfa) or surfactant alone (protocol available as Supplement 1;
Manual of Operations available as Supplement 2). BiB was conducted in the Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child
Health and Human Development Neonatal Research Network under an Investigational New Drug application (142279)
approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The
trial was approved by institutional review boards at each center. RTI International was the data coordinating center (DCC).
The independent NRN data and safety monitoring board, in collaboration with the DCC, conducted interim analyses after the
first 40 infants reached the primary outcome and after 25%
and 50% of patients reached this milestone to assess safety,
efficacy, and/or futility (statistical analysis plan available as
Supplement 3). This report follows the CONSORT (Consolidated Standards of Reporting Trials) guideline.24
jama.com

Original Investigation Research

Key Points
Question Does intratracheal administration of budesonide mixed
with surfactant, compared with surfactant alone, reduce
bronchopulmonary dysplasia or death by 36 weeks’ postmenstrual
age in preterm infants less than 29 weeks’ gestation?
Findings In this multicenter randomized trial, after recruiting 641
infants, recruitment was stopped early when prespecified futility
criteria were satisfied. There was no difference in
bronchopulmonary dysplasia or death between infants receiving
budesonide with surfactant (68.5%) vs those receiving surfactant
alone (67.9%; adjusted relative risk 1.00 [95% CI, 0.90-1.11]).
Meaning In extremely preterm infants, mixing budesonide with
surfactant did not reduce bronchopulmonary dysplasia or death.

Participants
Infants 22 weeks 0 days’ to 28 weeks 6 days’ gestational age
or 401 to 1000 g birth weight were eligible after a clinical decision was made at 48 hours’ or less postnatal age to administer surfactant. Infants were excluded if they were judged unlikely to survive or had a decision to redirect or limit support,
or there was (1) use of surfactant or systemic steroids before
enrollment; (2) maternal exposure to indomethacin within
24 hours of delivery or infant exposure to indomethacin before enrollment; (3) intent to use indomethacin within 7 days
of the last dose of study drug; (4) serious chromosomal abnormality or major malformation, known congenital infection, permanent neuromuscular condition affecting respiration;
or (5) enrollment in a conflicting clinical trial.

Randomization
Written parental informed consent was obtained before or after birth. Study drug was administered within 50 hours after
birth. Infants were stratified by study site and by gestational
age (<26 or ≥26 weeks). Multiple births were randomized independently. Step-forward randomization was implemented
to enable expeditious delivery room randomization, adopting “use next” drug kits with a block urn design.25,26 Based on
a DCC-generated randomization schedule, drug kits of budesonide respules or sham (empty respules) were randomized, assembled, masked, and labeled by the investigational drug/
research pharmacy at each site, then stored in a location that
permitted rapid access by the respiratory therapist or designee. Drug kits were added to the queue such that there were 3
or more sets of kits available for each gestational stratum at
any given time. Two drug kits were prepared for each randomization number in case a second dose was needed. Infants were
considered randomized when the masked drug kit was opened
immediately before treatment administration. Infants of multiple gestations were randomized separately. Infants were randomized 1:1 to either budesonide (0.25 mg/kg; 1 mL/kg) mixed
with surfactant (poractant alfa [2.5 mL/kg]) (intervention) or
to surfactant (2.5 mL/kg) alone (active comparator).

Interventions
The study drug was administered through an endotracheal tube.
Minimally invasive or less invasive surfactant administration
(Reprinted) JAMA October 28, 2025 Volume 334, Number 16

1453

© 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.

Downloaded from jamanetwork.com by University of Arizona Health Sciences Library user on 07/23/2026

