                                                                       Protocol 2014-0213
                                                                          August 23, 2023
                                                                            Page 25 of 45

more weeks of medication, which will be administered as described previously ie, Phase II non-
abstainers that are re-randomized to the switching arm will be titrated the same as those on
active varenicline in Phase I. Additionally, The VAR+ group will receive 1 extra mg (3 mg total
daily dose) to be taken with the PM dose and the NPL+ group will receive an additional 21 mg
nicotine patch (42 mg total daily), applied in the AM as usual. Inactive placebos will be provided
to the other treatment groups.

The active nicotine patch (21 mg) and matching placebos will be purchased from NAL
Pharmaceuticals. The active nicotine lozenge (as Nicotine Polacrilex) 2 mg and matching
placebo will be purchased from NAL Pharmaceuticals. The active clinical image varenicline and
placebo will provided by Pfizer. The active and placebo varenicline and the active and placebo
nicotine patches and lozenges will be sent to the University of Pennsylvania for blister-packing
and blinded kit preparation. Medications will be provided at no cost to the participant.

Subjects’ thoughts about their treatment assignment will be assessed by querying participants
at Visit 5 and then again at the end of treatment, using a brief questionnaire we developed for
our current medication trials (see Appendix I.). If the visit where the assessment would have
been given is missed, it will be captured at the next completed visit whether phone or in-clinic.
While not a valid measure of blinding success, this assessment provides valuable insight
regarding the subjects’ perception of their medication assignment and the associated side
effects (see Appendix I). Medication dispensation, pill counts and assessment of adverse
events will be carried out by medical and other research staff members who have been trained
on these procedures.

Dose Modifications for Blood Pressure
In the event that a subject has a manual blood pressure reading that indicates a 15% or greater
increase over baseline (systolic or diastolic) and blood pressure is > 160/100, the following
steps will be taken:

   1) Discontinue ad lib nicotine lozenges. Subject will be advised to monitor blood pressure
      and report results at next staff contact.
   2) If the 15 % increase continues at subsequent contact after the discontinuation of the
      lozenges, the hours of usage of the nicotine patch will be modified or discontinued per
      physician clinical judgment.

Note: In the event that a subject’s blood pressure exceeds 180/110 at any subsequent visit, the
nicotine lozenge and the nicotine patch will be discontinued.

The varenicline dose will not be adjusted.

Medication Blinding. The blinding will be handled by the data management team in accordance
with the minimization procedure being used for subject stratification and random assignment. A
master key mapping group assignment and kit identifiers to the un-blinded drug information will
be developed in conjunction with the pharmacy who will maintain the master key. The Tobacco
Research and Treatment Program has computer programmers that write the randomization
programs and automatically utilize the data (minimization factors) that have been entered into
the database to conduct the randomization. That program will be written directly into the study
database. The study coordinator conducts the randomization after all eligibility criteria are met
and recorded in the database (by design the program will not work otherwise). The group
assignment is then transmitted to the pharmacy, by the study coordinator. Pharmacy will
dispense the medication accordingly. Blinded reports are available that provide information on
