                                                                         Protocol 2014-0213
                                                                            August 23, 2023
                                                                               Page 6 of 45

understanding of whether switch or augmentation medication approaches lead to better
abstinence outcomes for those who fail in their cessation efforts during the acute phase of
treatment. It is important to emphasize that the effectiveness of medication switching or
augmentation as a rescue intervention has never been evaluated for smoking cessation. While
participants will be told that their medication “may be changed” during the study, all medication
assignments as well as re-assignments will be double-blinded. Findings from this SMART
design study could inform the design of an adaptive trial that might include additional
augmentation strategies, matched assignment to treatment conditions and dropping of
treatment arms found ineffective in the SMART study.

2.0. OBJECTIVES

Specific Aims.

Aim 1: To estimate the effects of six and 12 weeks of varenicline 2 mg (VAR) and nicotine
patch + ad lib lozenge (NPL) on abstinence. We hypothesize that the probability of abstinence
at week 6 will not differ as a function of Phase I treatment allocation but the probability of
abstinence at week twelve will demonstrate the superiority of VAR to NPL. Logistic regression
will evaluate the primary outcome of point prevalence of smoking at Week 12 as a function of
participants who remain on VAR or NPL for the full twelve-week trial.

Aim2: To estimate the probability that treatment continuation, switching, or augmentation
confers benefit conditional upon failing to quit after the initial treatment with nicotine patch + ad
lib lozenge (NPL) for six weeks. Conditional upon having failed to respond to NPL in Phase I,
the probability of abstinence at week twelve will differ as a function of staying on the same NPL,
augmenting NPL with an additional nicotine patch (NPL+) or switching to varenicline 2 mg
(VAR). We hypothesize that switching to VAR will be superior to augmentation or continuation,
and that augmentation will be superior to continuation. Among participants failing to respond to
NPL at Week 6, logistic regression will evaluate the point prevalence of smoking at Week 12 as
a function of continuing, augmenting, or switching treatment.

Aim 3: To estimate the probability that treatment continuation, switching, or augmentation
confers benefit conditional upon failing to quit after initial treatment with VAR for six weeks.
Conditional upon having failed to respond to VAR in Phase I, the probability of abstinence at
week twelve will differ as a function of staying on the same treatment, augmentation using
varenicline 3 mg (VAR+), or switching to NPL. We hypothesize that augmentation (VAR+) will
yield higher rates of abstinence than switching to NPL or remaining on VAR. Among participants
failing to respond to VAR at Week 6, logistic regression will evaluate the point prevalence of
smoking at Week 12 as a function of continuing, augmenting, or switching treatment.

Exploratory Aim 4 : To estimate the probability that abstinence at twelve weeks as a function
of treatment assignment at six weeks (augmentation) is moderated by initial treatment
assignment (i.e. at baseline). Conditional upon non-response, augmentation will demonstrate
superiority for participants originally receiving VAR compared to those who received NPL for
abstinence at week twelve. Logistic regression will evaluate the point prevalence of smoking at
Week 12 as a function of treatment in Phase I, treatment in Phase II and the interaction of
treatments in Phase I and II.

Exploratory Aim 5: To estimate the probability that abstinence at twelve weeks as a function of
treatment assignment at six weeks (switching) is moderated by initial treatment assignment (i.e.
at baseline). Conditional upon non-response, switching will demonstrate superiority for
participants originally receiving NPL compared to those who received VAR for abstinence at
week twelve. Logistic regression will evaluate the point prevalence of smoking at Week 12 as a
