                                                                            Protocol 2014-0213
                                                                               August 23, 2023
                                                                                 Page 22 of 45

                                                                             •      Death
   Attribution
               Grade 1     Grade 2     Grade 3     Grade 4     Grade 5       x        A life-threatening
                                                                             x      adverse drug
                                      PhaseI
                                                   PhaseI       PhaseI       experience     – any adverse
   Unrelated Phase I      Phase I                  PhaseII      PhaseII      experience     that places the
                                      Phase II
                                                   Phase III    Phase III
                                                                             patient, in the view of the
                                                   PhaseI       PhaseI       initial reporter, at immediate
                                      PhaseI
   Unlikely    Phase I    Phase I
                                      Phase II
                                                   PhaseII      PhaseII      risk of death from the
                                                   Phase III    Phase III    adverse experience as it
                                                                             occurred. It does not include
                          PhaseI      PhaseI       PhaseI       PhaseI
   Possible
               PhaseI
                          PhaseII     PhaseII      PhaseII      PhaseII      an adverse experience that,
               Phase II                                                      had it occurred in a more
                          Phase III   Phase III    Phase III    Phase III
                                                                             severe form, might have
                          PhaseI      PhaseI       PhaseI       PhaseI       caused death.
               PhaseI
   Probable               PhaseII     PhaseII      PhaseII      PhaseII
               Phase II
                          Phase III   Phase III    Phase III    Phase III    x      Inpatient
                                                                             x      hospitalization or
                          PhaseI      PhaseI       PhaseI       PhaseI       prolongation     of existing
               PhaseI
   Definitive             PhaseII     PhaseII      PhaseII      PhaseII
               Phase II
                          Phase III   Phase III    Phase III    Phase III    hospitalization
                                                                             x      A persistent or
x significant incapacity or substantial disruption of the ability to conduct normal life functions.
x A congenital anomaly/birth defect.

Important medical events that may not result in death, be life-threatening, or require hospitalization
may be considered a serious adverse drug experience when, based upon appropriate medical
judgment, they may jeopardize the patient or subject and may require medical or surgical
intervention to prevent one of the outcomes listed in this definition. Examples of such medical
events include allergic bronchospasm requiring intensive treatment in an emergency room or at
home, blood dyscrasias or convulsions that do not result in inpatient hospitalization, or the
development of drug dependency or drug abuse (21 CFR 312.32).

x Important medical events as defined above, may also be considered serious adverse events. Any
  important medical event can and should be reported as an SAE if deemed appropriate by the
  Principal Investigator or the IND Sponsor, IND Office.
x All events occurring during the conduct of a protocol and meeting the definition of a SAE must be
  reported to the IRB in accordance with the timeframes and procedures outlined in “The University
  of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer Center Institutional Review Board Policy for Investigators on
  Reporting Serious Unanticipated Adverse Events for Drugs and Devices”. Unless stated
  otherwise in the protocol, all SAEs, expected or unexpected, must be reported to the IND Office,
  regardless of attribution (within 5 working days of knowledge of the event).
x All life-threatening or fatal events, that are unexpected, and related to the study drug, must
  have a written report submitted within 24 hours (next working day) of knowledge of the event to
  the Safety Project Manager in the IND Office.
x Unless otherwise noted, the electronic SAE application (eSAE) will be utilized for safety reporting
  to the IND Office and MDACC IRB.
x Serious adverse events will be captured from the time of the first protocol-specific intervention,
  until 30 days after the last dose of drug, unless the participant withdraws consent. Serious
  adverse events must be followed until clinical recovery is complete and laboratory tests have
  returned to baseline, progression of the event has stabilized, or there has been acceptable
  resolution of the event.
