                                                                         Protocol 2014-0213
                                                                            August 23, 2023
                                                                              Page 11 of 45

requirements, side effects and contraindications of the medications will be reviewed. The
information presented may come in the form of a slideshow (either paper or electronic)
which will be developed in collaboration with the Medical Doctor Co-chair of the study (Dr.
Maher Karam-Hage) and will be based on current studies using these drugs, as well as
manufacturer and PDR information (see Appendix WW) and/or directly from the informed
consent document itself. Participants will be given the opportunity to ask questions about the
informed consent document or any aspect of the study. Any medical questions that arise
during the process, if not addressed in the documentation or discussion provided, will be
referred to the medical staff and the information will be provided to the potential participant
prior to consenting.

Two Consent forms are used in this study: One to cover the screening process and one to cover
actual randomization and treatment. Participants who received the ICDs and Info Session slides
electronically will have the opportunity to ask questions about the ICD or other study-related
procedures at the first in-person clinic visit (Baseline screening visit) prior to signing the
informed consent. The screening consent will be signed at the baseline screening visit and
covers procedures that take place prior to any treatment administration. This includes items
such as questionnaires, vitals, CO reading, drug screen, UPT if applicable, psychological
evaluation, and blood draw, etc.). All of these procedures are required in order to proceed to
randomization and are not optional. During the screening process however, the participant will
also be presented with an optional procedure regarding their electronic communication
preference (i.e. receiving communication via an unsecured method such as text, unencrypted
email, etc. or via secured method such as in person consultation, encrypted email, telephone
calls, etc.). The consent will be reviewed with the study participant and signed by a senior level
study staff member. Subjects will be told that prior to actual study participation, a second
consent form covering medical treatment will be required. Participants will be encouraged to
ask questions for understanding and if in agreement will sign the screening consent document
with the trained senior staff member.

Baseline Screening.
At the baseline screening (Visit 0), which will occur within 30 days of the telephone screen,
study participants will be asked to provide medical/surgical history, smoking history and to
complete other assessments as shown in Table 1. A urine drug screen will be conducted to
detect the presence of any of the following illicit drugs: cocaine, opiates, methadone,
benzodiazepines, barbiturates, amphetamines, methamphetamines, PCP and THC.
Participants failing the drug screen will be allowed to reschedule and repeat the visit one time.
If they test positive again, they will not be allowed to return. If found ineligible at the screening
visit, participants will receive compensation for the visit only if they meet the CO criteria and
have a clean drug screen. In some situations, if a participant tests positive on the drug screen
and is taking a medication that is believed to be possibly causing a false positive, the medical
team may be contacted to discuss the case. The medical team may choose to clear the
participant on to the Visit 1 screening/randomization visit with or without the requirement that
the participant pass the urine drug screen at that time prior to being enrolled in the project. A
cotinine test will be administered to assess cotinine levels only if the expired CO at screening
is less than 11 ppm. The use of the cotinine test in subjects between 6 – 10 is not for
inclusion/exclusion purposes. Since Visit 1 is considered part of the screening process as well,
the same standard will apply at Visit 1. If a NicAlert is used, the value must be greater than 2
for the participant to be eligible. If a NicAlert equivalent is used, it must indicate positive for
cotinine. Participants will undergo a neuropsychiatric interview called the MINI. Those patients
who in the judgment of the Mental Health Practitioner (MHP) are clinically stable over the last
3 months will be cleared to proceed. The decision to exclude at this point may be based in part
