                                                                        Protocol 2014-0213
                                                                           August 23, 2023
                                                                             Page 30 of 45

             ܸܽ‫ ݎ‬2݉݃ ௡௢௡௥௘௦௣௢௡ௗ௘௥௦ ՜ ܸܽ‫ ݎ‬3݉݃ െ ܸܽ‫ ݎ‬2݉݃ ௡௢௡௥௘௦௣௢௡ௗ௘௥௦ ՜ ܸܽ‫ ݎ‬2݉݃
                           = (ߚ଴ + ߚଵ + ߚଷ + ߚ଺ ) െ (ߚ଴ + ߚଵ + ߚଶ + ߚହ )

            ܸܽ‫ ݎ‬2݉݃ ௡௢௡௥௘௦௣௢௡ௗ௘௥௦ ՜ ܸܽ‫ ݎ‬3݉݃ െ ܸܽ‫ ݎ‬2݉݃ ௡௢௡௥௘௦௣௢௡ௗ௘௥௦ ՜ ܴܰܶ + ‫ݖ݋ܮ‬
                          = (ߚ଴ + ߚଵ + ߚଷ + ߚ଺ ) െ (ߚ଴ + ߚଵ െ ߚଷ + ߚ଻ )

Hypothesis Testing Exploratory Aim 4: Conditional upon non-response, augmentation will
demonstrate superiority for participants originally receiving VAR compared to those who
received NPL for abstinence at week twelve. Logistic regression will evaluate the point
prevalence of smoking at Week 12 as a function of treatment in Phase I, treatment in Phase II
and the interaction of treatments in Phase I and II. The specific contrast follows:

          ܸܽ‫ ݎ‬2݉݃ ௡௢௡௥௘௦௣௢௡ௗ௘௥௦ ՜ ܸܽ‫ ݎ‬3݉݃ െ ܴܰܶ + ‫ݖ݋ܮ‬௡௢௡௥௘௦௣௢௡ௗ௘௥௦ ՜ 2 ‫ ܴܶܰ כ‬+ ‫ݖ݋ܮ‬
                        = (ߚ଴ + ߚଵ + ߚଷ + ߚ଺ ) െ (ߚ଴ െ ߚଵ + ߚଷ െ ߚ଺ )


Hypothesis Testing Exploratory Aim 5: Conditional upon non-response, switching will
demonstrate superiority for participants originally receiving NPL compared to those who
received VAR for abstinence at week twelve. Logistic regression will evaluate the point
prevalence of smoking at Week 12 as a function of Phase I treatment, Phase II treatment and
the interaction of Phase I and Phase II treatments. The specific contrast follows:


           ܴܰܶ + ‫ݖ݋ܮ‬௡௢௡௥௘௦௣௢௡ௗ௘௥௦ ՜ ܸܽ‫ ݎ‬2݉݃ െ ܸܽ‫ ݎ‬2݉݃ ௡௢௡௥௘௦௣௢௡ௗ௘௥௦ ՜ ܴܰܶ + ‫ݖ݋ܮ‬
                        = (ߚ଴ െ ߚଵ െ ߚସ + ߚ଻ ) െ (ߚ଴ + ߚଵ െ ߚଷ + ߚ଻ )

Exploratory Aim 6: To estimate the probability that abstinence at the end of week 6 (Phase 1)
among those initially randomized to VAR or NRT conditions, will be moderated by salient
baseline covariates. The covariates of interest include: 1) motivation, 2) dependence level, 3)
nicotine metabolic ratio (normal vs. slow). In each case logistic regression will evaluate the
point-prevalence of smoking at Week 6 as a function of the specified baseline covariate,
treatment assignment, and the interaction of the specified covariate with treatment effects.15,86-88
Initial analyses will use vague, neutral priors as specified in the General Data Analytic Strategy
section. Evaluation of the sensitivity of conclusions to this choice of priors will use skeptical,
informative priors on interaction terms as recommended by Dixon and Simon.87

Exploratory Aim 7:As recommended by the newly revised SRNT 23guidelines additional
secondary outcomes will also include prolonged and continuous abstinence at 3 and 6 months.
Effects of Treatment on Affect, Other Withdrawal Symptoms, and Craving: Evaluation of affect,
withdrawal, craving and nicotine reinforcement (PANAS, CES-D, WSWS, mCEQ) will use
generalized linear modeling to determine the degree to which treatments/treatment strategies
affect these variables at Weeks 6 and 12 24,25. Adverse Events: We will use Beta-Binomial
models to examine differences in probability of adverse events by treatment.

Power. Power estimates for this proposal focus on Hypotheses for Aims 1 through 5, our
primary outcome, seven-day point prevalence and treatment or treatment strategy. Estimated
rates of seven-day point prevalence for VAR and NPL at Week 6 derive from meta-analyses9.
The probability of response at Week 12 conditional on response at Week 6 and continuation or
non-response at Week 6 and continuation, augmentation or treatment switching were based on
clinical consensus, taking into account the marginal rates of response at twelve weeks reported
derived from meta-analysis9. We should note that these estimates are based on the more
conservative response measure of continuous abstinence and are therefore modest
