                                                                       Protocol 2014-0213
                                                                          August 23, 2023
                                                                            Page 10 of 45

Participants who want to participate in a treatment to quit smoking or change smoking behavior
will be recruited from Houston metropolitan area using newspaper, radio and TV public service
announcements, feature articles in the MD Anderson newsletter, and posted flyers. The
Tobacco Research and Treatment Program’s web screener database for tobacco users,
                                                            outlined in IRB-approved PA18-0423,
                                                            also may be used as a recruitment
   Figure 1. Study Design
                                                            source for this study. This database
                                                            houses data collected from an
                           Quit          Patch and Lozenge  internet-based screening
                                                            questionnaire to recruit tobacco users
  Patch and Lozenge                                         from the Houston area, as well as
                                             Varenicline
         (NPL)                                              across Texas more broadly, who may
                                                            be interested in participating in
                          No Quit        Patch and Lozenge  tobacco use and cessation studies at
                                                            MD Anderson Cancer Center. PA18-
                                          High-Dose Patch
                                                            0423 allows the sharing of data with
                                         and Lozenge (NPL+) IRB approved MD Anderson protocols.
                                                            Interested participants will be offered
                           Quit              Varenicline    modest monetary compensation for
                                                            their time. We expect to have no
                                                            difficulty recruiting the needed number
    Varenicline 2mg
         (VAR)
                                             Varenicline    of smokers. The MDACC Tobacco
                                                            Treatment Program (TTP) is directed
                                                            by the PI and has a high degree of
                          No Quit        Patch and Lozenge
                                                            community visibility. We have had
                                                            considerable success recruiting
                                          Varenicline 3mg   participants for our clinical trials
                                               (VAR+)
                                                            research.

                                                        Population Description. The population
                                                        of the Houston community from which
                                                        the sample will be drawn (includes
Harris county) is estimated at 3,596,086 people. The ethnic distribution has been reported as
59% Caucasian (42% of which are not of Hispanic origin); 19% African-American; 5% Asian;
and .4% Native American, with 33% Hispanic or Latino (of any race). We expect to recruit
English speaking minority smokers in proportion to the population demographics, and smoking
prevalence.

Pre-Screening Telephone Assessment. All smokers will be prescreened by telephone for
basic eligibility requirements. An initial description of the study design will be provided and
data will be obtained on age, smoking history, other tobacco use, medical and psychiatric
history, medication use, and pregnancy/lactation status. All subjects who remain eligible
after pre-screening will either be sent an email with the currently approved informed consent
documents and information session slides for their review or be scheduled for a subsequent
informational session where the study requirements will be explained in more detail and the
informed consent reviewed.

Informational Session and Informed Consent. If an information session is scheduled, ideally,
will occur within 14 days of the telephone screen but it may occur anytime between the
phone assessment and the Baseline Screening visit. This visit can also be combined with
the baseline screening visit. During this session, the study purpose, other study
