                                                                        Protocol 2014-0213
                                                                           August 23, 2023
                                                                              Page 9 of 45

   •   Individuals rated as moderate (9-16) to high (17 or greater) on suicidality as assessed by
       Module B of the MINI.
   •   Psychiatric hospitalization within 1 year of screening date.
   •   A positive urine pregnancy test during the screening period. Women who are two years
       post-menopausal, or who have had a tubal ligation or a partial or full hysterectomy will not
       be subject to a urine pregnancy test.
   •   Pregnant, breast-feeding or of childbearing potential and is not protected by a medically
       acceptable, effective method of birth control while enrolled in the study. Medically
       acceptable contraceptives include: (1) approved hormonal contraceptives (such as birth
       control pills, patches, implants or injections), (2) barrier methods (such as a condom or
       diaphragm) used with a spermicide, or (3) an intrauterine device (IUD). Contraceptive
       measures sold for emergency use after unprotected sex are not acceptable methods for
       routine use.
   •   History of hypersensitivity or allergic reaction to Varenicline, NRT, or any component of
       these formulations.
   •   Any medical or psychiatric condition, illness, disorder, or concomitant medication that
       could compromise participant safety or treatment, as determined by the Principal
       Investigator and/or Study Physician.
   •   Subject considered by the investigator as unsuitable candidate for receipt of an
       investigational drug or unstable to be followed up throughout the entire duration of the
       study.
   •   Positive toxicology screen for any of the following drugs: cocaine, opiates, methadone,
       benzodiazepines, barbiturates, amphetamines, methamphetamines, PCP, or THC. a.
       Participants with valid prescriptions for opiates, benzodiazepines, barbiturates,
       amphetamines or methadone will not be excluded b. Participants failing the toxicology
       screen will be allowed to re-screen once. If they test positive again, they will not be allowed
       to return. Study physician may clear participant to continue on if there is a reasonable
       possibility the positive drug screen is the result of cross-reactivity with the participant’s
       concomitant medications resulting in a false positive.

Note: For the purpose of eligibility requirements and ongoing smoking status, “cigarettes” will
also include the tobacco products that are commonly known as “little cigars” and "cigarillos". Little
cigars are commercially manufactured and sold in packs similar to cigarettes. Cigarillos are
commercially manufactured and sold in packs of varying quantities.

4.0. STUDY DESIGN AND PROCEDURES

Subject Recruitment and Procedures
