                                                                        Protocol 2014-0213
                                                                           August 23, 2023
                                                                             Page 28 of 45

on the same treatment, switching or augmenting treatments, conditional upon failure to achieve
abstinence in Phase I, while also estimating the probability that such effects exist. Posterior
distributions can then be used as informative priors for continued monitoring in expansions of
treatments and treatment strategies exhibiting initial promise.

Preliminary data analyses will inspect baseline, group differences and compliance variables for
correlations with specified outcomes. Variables demonstrating baseline, group differences, for
which there is a correlation with outcomes, will be treated as potential confounders 81,82. Two
sets of analyses will determine the degree to which any group differences might confound
conclusions regarding treatment: one including, and one excluding the relevant variable as a
covariate.

Broadly, the analytic strategy will use generalized linear modeling. Continuous, dichotomous
and time-to-event data will utilize linear, logistic, and proportional hazards regression
respectively (Proc GENMOD and Proc PHREG; SAS v. 9.3). Longitudinal analyses will employ
generalized linear mixed models (Proc MCMC; SAS 9.3). All of these SAS procedures permit
Bayesian analyses. Keeping with standard practice for clinical trials in smoking cessation,
primary analyses will use intention-to-treat principles, with missing observations imputed as
smoking. Secondary analyses will implement joint modeling of observed outcomes and the
missing data which is robust to ignorable missingness 83,84. Sensitivity analyses will evaluate
robustness of analytic conclusions to missing data. Non-ignorable missing data patterns will be
addressed through pattern-mixture modeling methods 83.

Prior distributions for comparison of proportions will use ~Beta(a = 1, b = 1) priors. Linear,
logistic and Cox Proportional Hazards regression coefficient priors will take the form ~N (mean
= 0, var = 1 x 106) in the linear, log (odds) and log scales respectively. Level one error
variances will be specified as ~Inverse Gamma (shape = 0.001, scale = 0.001); level two
variances will use ~Uniform(0,1000) distributions. Sensitivity analyses using optimistic and
pessimistic, skeptical priors will evaluate prior assumptions 85. Inverse probability weight will
permit unbiased effect size estimates in the context of re-randomization. Finally, coding
procedures will permit identification of each salient effect. Specifically, at the initial
randomization VAR and NPL will be coded as 1 and -1 respectively. For the re-randomization:
1) non-responders receiving continuation therapy will be coded 1 while all other participants will
be coded 0; 2) non-responders receiving augmentation will be coded 1 versus 0 for all other
participants; 3) non-responders re-randomized to switching treatment will be coded -1 versus 0
for all other participants.

Data Analytic Models
       Logistic regression will utilize the following model for evaluating abstinence at twelve
weeks:


                   ݈‫ߚ = )ݕ(ݐ݅݃݋‬଴ + ߚଵ ‫ܽ כ‬ଵ + ߚଶ ‫ݎ݊ܽ כ‬ଶଵ + ߚଷ ‫ݎ݊ܽ כ‬ଶଶ + ߚସ ‫ݎ݊ܽ כ‬ଶଷ

                                 + ߚହ ‫ܽ כ‬ଵ ‫ݎ݊ܽ כ‬ଶଵ + ߚ଺ ‫ܽ כ‬ଵ ‫ݎ݊ܽ כ‬ଶଶ + ߚ଻ ‫ܽ כ‬ଵ ‫ݎ݊ܽ כ‬ଶଷ

Where a1 is the indicator variable for initial treatment randomization, and anr21, anr22, anr23
represent the coded vectors for non-responder continuation, augmentation and switching
respectively. Effects for each outcome cell at twelve weeks are as follows:

                                  ܴܰܶ + ‫ݖ݋ܮ‬௥௘௦௣௢௡ௗ௘௥௦ = ߚ଴ െ ߚଵ
