                                                                         Protocol 2014-0213
                                                                            August 23, 2023
                                                                              Page 36 of 45

difficult to gauge the level of such risk in this potentially vulnerable group of patients. The
uncertainly is also compounded by the fact that changes in negative affect, including depression
and agitation are commonly associated with nicotine withdrawal. Nevertheless, this was an
appropriate step, given the serious nature of these events and uncertainty of the evidence
supporting these claims.

Anthenelli and colleagues conducted a double blind placebo controlled trail assessing the safety
and efficacy of varenicline among 525 adult smokers with stably treated current or past major
depression and no recent cardiovascular events 90. The study population included smokers
receiving antidepressants (72%) with no dosage changes in the last 2 months or anticipated
changes during the study, and/or those successfully treated for depression in the last 2 years.
Over a third of the enrollees presented with lifetime suicidal ideation or behavior. The study
excluded those with a current or past psychotic, bipolar, or severe personality disorder or
current suicidal or homicidal risk. Assessments of depression, anxiety, suicidality and specific
neuropsychiatric symptoms of interest, were obtained using standardized instruments/interviews
multiple times throughout the study, as were spontaneously reported adverse events.

Continuous abstinence rates were higher for varenicline vs. placebo at the end of treatment and
through the 12 month follow-up. Both groups experienced a significant decline from baseline in
ratings of depression and anxiety and there were no differences in any psychiatric side effects,
including anxiety and mood disorders, hostility/aggression, or suicidal ideation/behavior.

The study by Anthenelli et. al. is the first to provide a direct evaluation of the safety and efficacy
of varenicline in a subset of smokers with a current (stable) and past depressive disorder. As
expected, the rates of smoking cessation associated with varenicline in this trial are somewhat
lower than that observed in the pivotal trials (see for example Jorenby 70) but the odds ratio is
quite favorable (3.35 95% CI 2.16,5.21) and similar to an OR of 3.85 (95% CI 2.69,5.50) seen in
the Jorenby trial. As a prospective RTC, it provides some of the strongest evidence to date that
the, smokers with currently stable depression can successfully quit smoking, and that the overall
risk of neuropsychiatric side effects during smoking cessation in this population is low and not
increased by the use of varenicline.

These results are consistent with other independent studies which failed to show an
enhanced risk of neuropsychiatric adverse events with varenicline in both psychiatric 91
and nonpsychiatric patients 28 as well as large observational studies investigating
suicidality 92 and psychiatric hospitaizations 93. Taken as a whole, these results provide a
less ominous picture than those emerging from the postmarketing reports, and
importantly provide the clinical community with an empirical basis on which to base
treatment decisions. A major strength of the study by Anthenelli is the use of repeated
standardized psychiatric assessments, which eliminates the potential for selective reporting bias
that could emerge from spontaneous, self-reports. These assessments revealed an overall
decline in anxiety and depression and no change in other psychiatric symptoms, as opposed to
an exacerbation which might otherwise been expected. These results are also consistent with
our own findings which show that varenicline pharmaocotherapy can be expected to reduce
depressive symptomatology in non-currently depressed smokers, regardless of whether they
quit or not 28. The Anthenelli study did not include patients with untreated or unstable depression
or those with other psychiatric disorders. Hence the findings may not generalize to those with
more serious psychiatric disturbance. However it is important to note that previous studies
schizophrenic patients did produced similar safety findings 91. Suicidal ideation was low during
and after treatment (6.0%-7.5%) and did not differ across the groups 90. A suicide attempt,
which potentially represents one of the most serious adverse events, is extremely rare in this
