                                                                       Protocol 2014-0213
                                                                          August 23, 2023
                                                                            Page 38 of 45

patch, nasal spray, inhaler, lozenge and sublingual tablet, are effective as part of a strategy to
promote smoking cessation, enhancing long-term abstinence rates as much as 50 to 70% 18.
The 2008 US clinical practice guidelines 7 state that the long-term use of nicotine patch with
another form of ad lib NRT is more effective than nicotine patch alone and recommend that
physicians consider this option. Recent reports indicate that recommended changes to NRT
product labeling by the FDA include a removal of the warning that consumers should not use an
NRT product if they are still smoking, chewing tobacco, using snuff or any other product that
contains nicotine—including another NRT. The FDA suggests to consumers, “There are no
significant safety concerns associated with using more than one over-the-counter (OTC) NRT at
the same time, or using an OTC NRT at the same time as another nicotine-containing product—
including a cigarette” 96.

In general, the patch and lozenge are tolerated well by those who use it. The most frequent side
effects reported by those using the patch are listed below. These side effects tend to be mild
and include: nausea, redness at the patch site and/or minor swelling, dizziness, difficulty
sleeping, rapid heart rate, abnormal dreams, increased blood pressure, headaches, rash and/or
itching. Similarly, the most common side effects reported by users of the lozenge are insomnia
(reported in less than 5 percent of cases), nausea, hiccups, coughing, heartburn, and
headache. A review of adverse effects based on 35 trials with over 9,000 participants did not
find evidence of excess adverse cardiovascular events among participants assigned to nicotine
patch, and the total number of such events was low 97. Additionally, a review of safety in
patients with cardiovascular disease found no evidence of an increased risk of cardiac events 98.
Similarly, an analysis of 187 smokers admitted to hospital with acute coronary syndromes who
received nicotine patches showed no evidence of differences in short- or long-term mortality
compared to a propensity-matched sample of smokers in the same database who did not
receive NRT 99.

Augmentation: Double Patch and Lozenge. Only individuals who tolerate the starting NRT
dosing regimen well but continue to smoke will be eligible for augmentation. Several
studies have reported little or no increase in clinically significant adverse events associated with
use of high-dose nicotine replacement therapy 100-102. For example, in terms of individual
adverse events, two prior studies 100,102 found higher rates of nausea or vomiting with higher
nicotine doses (incidence rates of 28 and 24%) in the 42-mg groups. One study also reported
more sleep disturbances 102 and another reported increased skin reactions 103 with higher doses,
though these were not reported in all studies 100. Several studies using high-dose NRT in
individuals who had not yet quit smoking (or relapsed) reported no higher incidence of cardiac
or other adverse events 100-103. Importantly, the authors concluded that because cessation is so
important and the risk of higher doses so small, it’s worthwhile to use higher doses 100. In
another recent review, the authors concluded that increasing nicotine dose in NRT
products either through combination or high-dose patches should not be restricted to
highly dependent smokers and that increased nicotine delivery resulted in few clinically
significant adverse events 21.

Protection Against Risks: Varenicline and NRT are both FDA approved medications for
smoking cessation. Our procedures closely follow those used in previous clinical trials involving
several medications for smoking cessation and include medical and psychiatric screening. Our
study physician will identify participants who have contraindications for use of either drug and
we will monitor participants for adverse reactions while they are on medication.

The typical side effects are not usually serious in nature and often abate within a few days to
weeks after starting medication or once the medication is withdrawn. Adverse effects and
