Protocol 2014-0213
August 23, 2023
Page 13 of 45
On occasion, V1 randomization may be delayed beyond 30 days from the Baseline visit due
to various reasons including, but not limited to, the following: a) medical findings that may be
significant but not exclusionary (in this case, a patient letter noting the area of concern and the
required follow-up, if any, may be provided) (see Appendices RR, TT, UU, VV and V), b)
participant-related events (e.g., travel, work schedules), or c) study related factors (e.g., full
clinic schedule). In these cases, participants’ pregnancy status, blood pressure, concomitant
medications, mental health history, medical/surgical history, and smoking history will be
reviewed before completing the randomization. If there are no significant changes,
participants will be allowed to continue to the V1 randomization visit as described above. If
there are significant changes, the baseline screening process will be conducted again as
deemed appropriate by the medical team.
Re-Visit Schedule and the Visit Window
Every effort will be made to have return visits (both phone and in-person) on the same day of
the week for study visits, however, a window will be permissible for all return visits as follows.
Visit 2 will only have a +3 day window, Visit 6 will have a +6 day window, V5 will have a -3/+10
day window, Visit 7 will have a -3/+6 day window and Visit 8 will have a +25 day window. Visit
8 window starts after participant has been off study medication for at least 24 hours. If the end
of the visit window falls on a weekend, holiday, or other day on which the clinic is officially
closed, subjects will be allowed to complete the visit during the next business day except for
V2, V5 and V8 which will not be scheduled beyond +3 days for V2, +10 days for V5 and +25
days for V8. In special circumstances, the Visit 5 window can be extended beyond +10 days at
the discretion of the study physician. Follow-up visits will have expanded visit windows such
that the 3-mo Follow-Up Visit has a window of +1 month or -3 days and the 6-mo Follow-Up
Visit has a window of -1 month with an ending period of whenever final abstinence data is
collected or the trial ends, whichever is sooner. For those that miss a follow up visit, staff will
call them to invite them to come in as originally planned so that at minimum abstinence data
such as the time-line follow back assessment, CO and saliva cotinine, if applicable can be
collected. For those in follow up that report current abstinence and that they cannot come in to
complete the visit, we will send them an abstinence questionnaire and if applicable cotinine
saliva collection kit which they complete and mail back to us. In exchange for their completed
abstinence packet (See Appendix C and D), the subject will receive $20 or a comparable gift
card. Missed visits will be recorded in the study database but will not be logged as protocol
deviations because they are expected in smoking cessation trials. See Appendix OO. Our
subjects on average complete 75% of their visits but 100% compliance is not expected. In
addition to a 1-day pre-quit support call, there will also be one 3-day post-quit, a 3-day post
re-randomization and a 14-day post re-randomization support call during the course of the
study. Note that the two post re-randomization calls will not be conducted in the event the
subject is abstinent or off study medication. Because of the +2 day window for Visit 2, V2 and
T2 support call may fall on the same day. If they fall on the same day, V2 will be completed
and T2 will be cancelled as it is only a support call and no assessments are collected.
Because of the +6 day window for Visit 6, V6 and the T4 support call may fall around the
same time. If they are within two days of each other, the V6 will be completed and the T4 call
will be cancelled as it is only a support call and no assessments are collected. All support
calls have a 0-day window because another phone visit or in-person visit is planned no more
than 7 days later. At least two call attempts will be made during the course of the day
however before the call will be considered missed. Missed support calls will be recorded in
the study database but will not be logged as protocol deviations because they are expected
in smoking cessation trials.

