Protocol 2014-0213
August 23, 2023
Page 10 of 45
Participants who want to participate in a treatment to quit smoking or change smoking behavior
will be recruited from Houston metropolitan area using newspaper, radio and TV public service
announcements, feature articles in the MD Anderson newsletter, and posted flyers. The
Tobacco Research and Treatment Program’s web screener database for tobacco users,
outlined in IRB-approved PA18-0423,
also may be used as a recruitment
Figure 1. Study Design
source for this study. This database
houses data collected from an
internet-based screening
Quit
Patch and Lozenge
questionnaire to recruit tobacco users
from the Houston area, as well as
Patch and Lozenge
Varenicline
across Texas more broadly, who may
(NPL)
be interested in participating in
tobacco use and cessation studies at
No Quit
Patch and Lozenge
MD Anderson Cancer Center. PA180423 allows the sharing of data with
High-Dose Patch
IRB approved MD Anderson protocols.
and Lozenge (NPL+)
Interested participants will be offered
modest monetary compensation for
Quit
Varenicline
their time. We expect to have no
difficulty recruiting the needed number
Varenicline 2mg
Varenicline
of
smokers. The MDACC Tobacco
(VAR)
Treatment Program (TTP) is directed
by the PI and has a high degree of
No Quit
Patch and Lozenge
community visibility. We have had
considerable success recruiting
Varenicline 3mg
participants for our clinical trials
(VAR+)
research.
Population Description. The population
of the Houston community from which
the sample will be drawn (includes
Harris county) is estimated at 3,596,086 people. The ethnic distribution has been reported as
59% Caucasian (42% of which are not of Hispanic origin); 19% African-American; 5% Asian;
and .4% Native American, with 33% Hispanic or Latino (of any race). We expect to recruit
English speaking minority smokers in proportion to the population demographics, and smoking
prevalence.
Pre-Screening Telephone Assessment. All smokers will be prescreened by telephone for
basic eligibility requirements. An initial description of the study design will be provided and
data will be obtained on age, smoking history, other tobacco use, medical and psychiatric
history, medication use, and pregnancy/lactation status. All subjects who remain eligible
after pre-screening will either be sent an email with the currently approved informed consent
documents and information session slides for their review or be scheduled for a subsequent
informational session where the study requirements will be explained in more detail and the
informed consent reviewed.
Informational Session and Informed Consent. If an information session is scheduled, ideally,
will occur within 14 days of the telephone screen but it may occur anytime between the
phone assessment and the Baseline Screening visit. This visit can also be combined with
the baseline screening visit. During this session, the study purpose, other study

