Protocol 2014-0213
August 23, 2023
Page 5 of 45
Probability of side effects and cost of treatment will also be considered in the model where
treatments confer relatively equal benefit for any given subgroup.
Two prior open label studies have shown promising results in the augmentation of varenicline
treatment for smoking cessation. In both studies the dose was increased from 2 mg to 3 mg if
patients tolerated varenicline well but continued smoking. In one study that included 73
patients who continued to smoke after 8 weeks of varenicline 2 mg (total daily dose) treatment,
4 additional weeks of varenicline 3 mg (total daily dose) treatment resulted in 40% abstinence
rates. The increase in dosage was associated with adverse events in 22 patients (30%) 16,
though they were mostly mild. Only 2 patients discontinued treatment due to adverse events
(nausea, in both cases). More specifically, the reported events are as follows: nausea (22),
abnormal dreams (17), vomiting (13), insomnia (12), and headache (7). No neuropsychiatric
events were reported. A naturalistic study with an open label design conducted here at MD
Anderson Cancer Center involved 88 cancer patients that received varenicline for 12 weeks. Of
those, 44 patients received 2 mg/day for the whole 12 weeks and 44 got an increase to 3 mg
per day (2 mg q.a.m. and 1 mg q.p.m.) between weeks 6 and 8. At the end of treatment, 4 out of
the 44 patients (9%) in the 2 mg control group and 11 out of the 44 patients (25%) in the
experimental group (3 mg) achieved abstinence. Patients whose medication was increased to a
higher dosage (3 mg) were significantly more likely than those who continued to received 2 mg
varenicline to report 7-day abstinence at week 12 (Ȥ2 = 3.94, p = .05, OR = 3.33, 95% CI: 1.12 –
11.45) 17. No increase in neuropsychiatric side effects was noted. In both cases, the results
suggest that the increase in dosage was not only incrementally and statistically beneficial in
achieving abstinence, but was also well-tolerated by the participants.
All of the commercially available forms of nicotine replacement therapy (NRT), i.e. gum,
transdermal patch, nasal spray, inhaler, lozenge and sublingual tablet, are effective as part of a
strategy to promote smoking cessation, enhancing long-term abstinence rates as much as 50 to
70% 18. The 2008 US clinical practice guidelines7 state that the long-term use of nicotine patch
with another form of ad lib NRT is more effective than nicotine patch alone and recommend that
physicians consider this option. Recent reports indicate that recommended changes to NRT
product labeling by the FDA include a removal of the warning that consumers should not use an
NRT product if they are still smoking, chewing tobacco, using snuff or any other product that
contains nicotine—including another NRT. The FDA suggests to consumers, “There are no
significant safety concerns associated with using more than one over-the-counter (OTC) NRT at
the same time, or using an OTC NRT at the same time as another nicotine-containing product—
including a cigarette” (http://www.fda.gov/ForConsumers/ConsumerUpdates/ucm345087.htm).
Studies have also found that higher doses of the nicotine patch relieves withdrawal and craving
and might improve concentration 19,20. In a recent review, the authors concluded that increasing
nicotine dose in NRT products either through combination or high-dose patches should not be
restricted to highly dependent smokers and that increased nicotine delivery resulted in few
clinically significant adverse events 21. Though not entirely understood, it is thought that the
increased efficacy of combination NRT may be partially related to the low, but continuous level
of nicotine replacement offered by the patch supplemented with episodic use of the lozenge (or
gum) to deal with breakthrough withdrawal symptoms 22. Though the high-dose patch offers a
higher level of continuous nicotine replacement, it may not be sufficient to deal with episodic
increases in withdrawal symptoms that might be ameliorated with lozenge use.
Innovation. The novelty of this design is that it will allow us to dynamically evaluate “rescue”
pharmacotherapy interventions for smokers who are initially unsuccessful in their attempt to
quit. Moreover, we are evaluating the two active treatment combinations that are known to be
the most effective for cessation, potentially maximizing success rates; and increasing our

