Protocol 2014-0213
August 23, 2023
Page 18 of 45
The Positive and Negative Affect Scale (PANAS). The PANAS 43 is comprised of two 10-item
mood scales: Positive Affect (PA) and Negative Affect (NA). Participants rate different feelings
and emotions on a scale of 1-5. Various time instructions (e.g., today, past few days, past
week, general, etc.) have been used with acceptably high alpha reliability ranging from .86 to
.90 for PA and .84 to .87 for NA. Post-cessation PANAS negative affect is a robust predictor of
relapse 44,45.
The Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale (CES-D). The CES-D is a 20-item selfreport measure developed to assess depressive symptoms in community (nonclinical)
populations 46 and in recent studies of smoking cessation 47. This scale consists of four factors:
depressed affect, enervation, lack of positive affect and interpersonal problems.
The Patient Health Questionnaire – Mood Module (PHQ)
The Patient Health Questionnaire Mood Module (PHQ) is a 9-item self-report measure that was
developed to assess the participant’s mood over the last two weeks 48 and is used in
conjunction with the Mental Health Safety Plan (see Appendix H).
The Texas Smoking Abstinence Motivation Scale (TSAMS). This is a 10-item assessment
created specifically for smoking cessation research to measure a participant’s motivation to quit
smoking 49.
Motivation Question. This item, based on the Stages of Change model of behavioral change 50,
will be used to determines high or low level of motivation to quit smoking for stratification
purposes.
CERQ-short. The CERQ-short is an 18 item validated questionnaire that assesses an
array of cognitive emotional regulation strategies and consists of 9 subscales: self-blame,
acceptance, rumination, positive refocus, refocus on planning, positive reappraisal,
putting into perspective, catastrophizing, and other-blame 51. These regulation strategies
have been related to a variety of affective outcomes and may be related to cessation
rates in this study.
Sleep Problems Scale. This 4-item scale, designed to assess symptoms of sleep disturbance
as a function of treatment and nicotine withdrawal 52, will be administered at baseline.
The Self-Efficacy Temptation and Confidence Scales (SETC). The SETC Scales assess
Bandura’s construct of self-efficacy and evaluate an individual’s efficacy (i.e. confidence) to
abstain from smoking in 20 situations that represent typical smoking cues 53. These situations
form four subscales, comprising five items each, examining cues related to negative affect,
social/positive, physical concerns, withdrawal symptoms, and urges. The same items are used
to evaluate an individual’s temptation to smoke, providing a measure of cue strength to relate to
the efficacy evaluation. Both efficacy and temptation are rated on 5-point Likert scales ranging
from not at all to extremely
Specific Loss of Interest and Pleasure Scale (SLIPS). The SLIPS is the first validated
measure that allows for the assessment of recent changes in anhedonia in non-clinical and
clinical samples. Anhedonia, or loss of pleasure and/or interest in people or things, is a key
component of many forms of psychopathology. Extant anhedonia measures only assess
current state or longstanding trait anhedonia, which risks discounting recent changes. Thus,
the Specific Loss of Interest and Pleasure Scale (SLIPS), was created to assess recent

