Protocol 2014-0213
August 23, 2023
Page 17 of 45
Dispense Medication**
X
X
Note: bold visits occur in-person; a-Randomization visit; start medication the next day; bc- End of Treatment visit (Visit 8); d-3mos post quit follow-up (Visit 9); e-6 mos post
quit follow-up (Visit 10); f-within 30 days of initial phone assessment but eligible for rescreen and an additional 30 days if needed; g- will be asked at V0 for all subjects.
This will be asked again at any point the first time someone reports using e-cigs during study (but not for those who don’t); h- Urine cotinine samples will be
collected at V9 and V10 if subject comes in-person as scheduled. Subject will have the option to mail in saliva sample at those visits if unable to present to the
clinic. For all applicable in-clinic visits, if subject unable to produce a urine sample during the visit in an adequate amount of time, a saliva sample will be collected
instead. i- EMA daily diary will be completed every day for 84 days (duration of treatment phase), starting the day after randomization. EMA assessments will done
daily for 2 weeks in Phase I, starting the day after randomization and 2 weeks in Phase II, starting the day after V5; *Asked as part of screening procedures at V1 prior
to consent. **Medication dispensing will occur in bulk quantities at V1 (Phase 1) and then again at V5 (Phase 2). In rare instances such as stock, pharmacy or scheduling
issues, a pt may be dispensed meds ahead or behind schedule to compensate for issue. If pt cannot come at V5, the decision whether the participant may continue on
study drug will be left to the discretion of the study physician. Note: Subjects will be given a window in which to complete a visit before the visit is considered missed (see
protocol for additional details& exceptions). j-ROS/Physical may take place at baseline screening or Visit 1. k-screening consent signed at V0 & treatment consent signed at
V1. I – If pt reports they have not taken their varenicline/placebo tablets within the 3 days prior to Visit 5 or 7, no draw will be conducted as varenicline levels will not be
detectable. If abstainer at V5, no VAR draw will be conducted at V7. ; m – if T2 and V2 fall on same day, T2 cancelled; n – if V6 and T4 within 2 days of each other, T4 will
be cancelled.; o – if opted for, ppts may receive study questionnaires up to 5 days prior to the clinic visit so that they can complete them in advance to reduce clinic time

Assessments and Questionnaires
Participants that have agreed to electronically receive questionnaires in advance of the visits
may automatically be sent an email containing a participant specific link up to 5 days before the
scheduled appointment. Participants will have up to 5 days prior to their appointment to access
the link and complete the questionnaires for a $10 bonus.
MINI International Neuropsychiatric Interview. Current psychiatric disorders will be assessed
using version 6.0 of the MINI 31. The MINI screens for several DSM-IV Axis 1 diagnoses
including depression, anxiety, bipolar and eating disorders, as well as substance and alcohol
abuse. The MINI also provides a graded assessment of suicidality (low-high risk). The MINI is
shorter and takes less time to administer than the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV
disorders (SCID) 32 but has been validated against that instrument 31,33.
The Demographic, Health and Smoking Health Questionnaires. These instruments expand on
the data obtained during the pre-screening, providing more detailed information on
demographics, health/medication history, alcohol, caffeine, and other drug use, for use in the
medical screening. Information on smoking history (e.g., year’s smoked, previous quit
attempts, relapse, current smoking rate, and other nicotine/tobacco use) is also obtained.
These questionnaires have been used in our previous and current cessation studies to provide
descriptive data for the study population (e.g., 29,30).
The Fagerström Test for Nicotine Dependence (FTND). The FTND is a 6 item questionnaire that
measures nicotine dependence by assessing various components of smoking behavior such as
daily intake, difficulty in refraining from smoking, and time to first cigarette 34,35. In some studies,
the scale has been found to correlate with cotinine level 36,37 and to predict smoking treatment
outcome 38. It was modified from the most commonly used nicotine dependence measure, the
Fagerstrom Tolerance Questionnaire 39. Time to first cigarette (within 30 minutes) has been
noted to be the item accounting for the majority of the variance in this scale and the one most
highly correlated with multidimensional scales of nicotine dependence 40.
The Wisconsin Smoking Withdrawal Scale (WSWS). The WSWS 41 will be used to assess
withdrawal symptoms. We will use the Anger, Anxiety, Concentration, and Sadness subscales
of WSWS, and the Craving subscale to ascertain the effects of quitting on mood and urges to
smoke, respectively. The WSWS has scale coefficient alphas between 0.75 and 0.93 and the
mood and craving scales demonstrate increases as a function of nicotine abstinence as well
as prediction of treatment outcome. Items from the Minnesota Withdrawal 42 are included in the
scale for comparability to earlier studies using that measure.

