Protocol 2014-0213
August 23, 2023
Page 19 of 45
changes in anhedonia. Each of the 23 items are ranged from 0 to 3 to indicate the degree of
change in interest in or pleasure from a specific experience, relative to the past.
SUPPS-P Impulsive Behavior Scale. The SUPPS-P is a 20-item questionnaire composed of 4
scales that capture different aspects of impulsive behavior, including Premeditation (lack of),
Urgency, Sensation Seeking, and Perseverance (lack of) 54. Impulsivity has been linked to
substance abuse, including smoking. As part of exploratory analyses, we will examine whether
impulsive symptoms moderate treatment effects on cessation outcome, and whether treatment
reduces impulsive symptoms.
Reward Probability Index (RPI). The 20-item RPI is a reliable and valid questionnaire measure
of access to reward in the real-world environment 55. RPI scores measure two factors that
relate to one’s ability to extract reward from the environment: reward probability (i.e., the
number of potential reinforcers and the individual’s abilcotity to obtain these rewards) and
environmental suppressors (i.e., the presence of aversive stimuli in the environment that
prevent access to rewards). In the proposed study, we expect that IRS- smokers will have
lower scores on reward probability and higher scores on environmental suppressors than
IRS+ smokers.
Electronic Cigarette Questionnaire: This questionnaire will be used as a baseline measure of
electronic cigarette use, both past and current. Participants will be asked initially at the baseline
screening visit (V0), and then again only if they report use again throughout the study
Ecological Momentary Assessments (EMA). Our EMA methodology is modeled after several of
our previous studies in which we enrolled very diverse smoking populations56-58. Two categories
of EMA assessments will be implemented on the smartphone. One is a daily diary assessment
which occurs only once per day. The other category is comprised of EMA assessments that can
occur multiple times a day, prompted by a random prompt following a specified sampling
algorithm (see appendix DDD). The daily diary assessments will occur every day throughout the
treatment phase of the study. To reduce assessment burden, the random and more frequent
EMA assessments will occur only two weeks in Phase 1 and 2 weeks in Phase 2. While our
sampling algorithms are designed to limit subject burden, the random EMA assessments cover
more domains and take more time than the daily diary assessments so we have limited them to
this time period consistent with previous studies by Shiffman and colleagues59-63.
The daily diary EMA assessments will occur 30 minutes after waking each morning and will
assess events from the previous day such as cigarettes per day (CPD), alcohol consumption,
affect, sleep, motivation, and medication compliance. For the random EMA assessments,
participants will be prompted to complete additional random assessments 3 times per day. The
smartphone will provide immediate feedback of compensation provided for the completion of
each assessment as noted below. For random EMA sampling, each day will be divided into 3
blocks so that assessments are not completed within close proximity of one another. During
each block, 1 EMA assessment will be triggered at random to assess affect, craving, and other
momentary contextual factors (i.e., expectancies, motivation, smoking availability, self-efficacy,
and perceived stressors). The software prevents assessments from occurring within close
proximity of other assessments. Because prompts may occur at inconvenient times, participants
can delay prompts for up to 20 minutes by touching an icon on their smartphone when it is
impossible or inconvenient to respond (e.g., driving). This improves compliance and does not
bias the data 64.
EMA trainings will be provided to participants as needed. The smartphone also displays
feedback reports (e.g., amount of compensation earned). Total time devoted to EMA is fairly
reasonable (between 17-30 minutes/day on average), with compliance rates of >75%, even
among low-SES populations 56-58. Our previous research has shown that >90% of completed

