Protocol 2014-0213
August 23, 2023
Page 7 of 45
function of Phase I treatment, Phase II treatment and the interaction of Phase I and Phase II
treatments.
Exploratory Aim 6: To estimate the probability that abstinence at the end of week 6 (Phase 1)
among those initially randomized to VAR or NPL conditions, will be moderated by salient
baseline covariates. The covariates of interest include: 1) motivation, 2) dependence level, 3)
nicotine metabolic ratio (normal vs. slow). In each case logistic regression will evaluate the
point-prevalence of smoking at Week 6 as a function of the specified baseline covariate,
treatment assignment, and the interaction of the specified covariate with treatment.
Exploratory Aim 7: As recommended by the newly revised SRNT 23guidelines additional
secondary outcomes will also include prolonged and continuous abstinence at 3 and 6 months.
Effects of Treatment on Affect, Other Withdrawal Symptoms, and Craving: Evaluation of affect,
withdrawal, craving and nicotine reinforcement (PANAS, CES-D, WSWS, mCEQ) will use
generalized linear modeling to determine the degree to which treatments/treatment strategies
affect these variables at Weeks 6 and 12 24,25. Adverse Events: We will use Beta-Binomial
models to examine differences in probability of adverse events by treatment.
3.0 PATIENT ACCRUAL AND ELIGIBILITY
Participants. The present study will use a double-blind 2-group parallel design, randomizing up
to 510 smokers (up to10 pilot participants and 500 study participants) to one of two initial
treatment conditions (Phase 1), nicotine patch 21 mg + ad lib 2 mg lozenge (NPL), and
varenicline 2 mg (VAR). This will provide estimates of abstinence at six weeks from the quitdate. Patients failing to achieve abstinence, who were initially allocated to NPL or VAR will
undergo re-randomization (Phase 2) to a) continuation of the same treatment; b) switching to
the untried intervention (i.e. NPL or VAR), or; c) augmentation of the NPL treatment with an
additional 21 mg patch (high dose nicotine patch + ad lib lozenge; NPL+) or augmentation of the
VAR treatment with an increase in dose from 2 mg (total daily dose) to 3 mg (total daily dose)
(high dose varenicline; VAR+). This permits estimates of the probability of benefit of switching
versus augmentation versus a longer trial of the patient’s current treatment, after they have
failed at initially achieving abstinence (see Figure 1). While we only plan to enroll 510 eligible
smokers on the current protocol, our past experiences recruiting from the Houston community
has shown that we will need to screen and register in CORe at least three times the needed
number of subjects. Thus, we estimate that we may need to screen at least 1000 people in
order to attain the number of eligible people needed for data analytic purposes. Adaptive
randomization (minimization) 26 will be used to stratify the sample by motivation, gender, and
race. The procedures described for recruitment, screening and assessments will closely follow
those which we have used in numerous other medication trials 27-30. Given our experience and
established RCT infrastructure, we expect to have no trouble recruiting for this study (over the
past 10 years the PI has recruited over 2500 smokers into clinical trials). Briefly, volunteers who
want to quit smoking or change their smoking behavior will be recruited from the Houston area
using radio and TV advertisements and prescreened by telephone for basic eligibility
requirements (age, location, tobacco use, contraindicated medical conditions, etc.). Phone
eligible subjects will be scheduled for in-person medical screening for a more thorough review of
their medical and psychiatric suitability for the study.
Key Inclusion Criteria.
• Age: 18-75 years old

