Protocol 2014-0213
August 23, 2023
Page 27 of 45
Open-Label Pilot. Using procedures identical to those previously outlined (with the exception of
placebo medications), we will run up to 10 pilot participants in an open label format, should our
medication placebos not be available at the time of study start-up; otherwise pilot subjects will
receive placebo as per protocol . The purpose of the pilot is to test our procedures and
associated SOPs, develop an optimal and efficient study flow, and adjust procedures according
to feedback (with appropriate protocol revisions, if necessary). Subjects will receive open label
varenicline provided by Pfizer or obtained by MDACC Investigational Pharmacy for use in this
study and commercially available over-the-counter nicotine patches and nicotine lozenge. A
separate consent form will be used for the open label format.
5.0. DATA ANALYSIS

General Data Analytic Strategy
The proposed trial will focus on estimating five effects: AIM 1) among responders at six weeks,
the effect of VAR versus NPL on abstinence at six and twelve weeks; Exploratory AIM 4) among
non-responders at six weeks, the differential effect of augmentation on participants initially
randomized to VAR or NPL on abstinence at twelve weeks; Exploratory AIM 5 among nonresponders at six weeks, the differential effect of switching on participants initially randomized to
VAR or NPL on abstinence at twelve weeks; AIM 33) among individuals initially randomized to
VAR who were non-responders at six weeks the effects of augmentation or switching versus
continuation on abstinence at twelve weeks; AIM 2) among individuals initially randomized to
NPL who were non-responders at six weeks the effects of augmentation or switching versus
continuation on abstinence at twelve weeks. Our primary endpoint is end of treatment (EOT)
seven-day point prevalence and expired CO value, and our primary analytical approach will
involve Bayesian statistical methods to assess the probability that such an interaction exists.
Our analytical plan is shaped by the limitations of conventional (Frequentist) methods for
addressing this question and the advantages of a Bayesian approach for assessing the
probability that a given strategy might successfully be expanded into a larger-scale program that
addresses smoking as a chronic, relapsing disorder. This data, valuable in its own right, can
justify the commitment of resources needed for such an expansion. Further, current uncertainty
regarding the probability of abstinence from smoking as a function of treatment strategy is
readily incorporated in a Bayesian approach permitting more robust planning and design.
The Bayesian approach addresses the following study questions: 1) ”Among initial responders,
what is the probability VAR confers benefit relative to NPL on abstinence at six and twelve
weeks, what is the best estimate of this effect, and what is its precision?” 4) “Among nonresponders at six weeks, what are the relative probabilities that augmentation/switching confer
benefit at twelve weeks for those initially receiving VAR versus NPL, what are the best
estimates of these effects and what is their precision?” 3) “Among non-responders at six weeks
who initially received VAR what is the probability of benefit of augmentation/switching versus
continuation for abstinence at twelve weeks, what are the best estimates of these effects and
their precision?” 2) “Among non-responders at six weeks who initially received NPL what is the
probability of benefit of augmentation/switching versus continuation for abstinence at twelve
weeks, what are the best estimates of these effects and their precision?” By estimating the
probability that such effects exists, we are assessing the probability that the alternative
hypothesis is true, a probability that is, by definition, not accessible to Frequentist methods. The
FDA has discussed the use of Bayesian statistical methods to make decisions regarding the
efficacy of new treatments as an alternative to Frequentist methods in developing clinical
applications 75-80. The current proposal will provide the best, unbiased estimates for the
interaction of Phase I and Phase II treatments as well as for the benefit conferred by remaining

