Protocol 2014-0213
August 23, 2023
Page 3 of 45

1.0 BACKGROUND
Introduction. Smoking is a significant public health problem and is responsible for nearly 5
million premature deaths each year worldwide 1 including 443,000 in the US 2. Although
significant advances have occurred in smoking cessation therapy, an estimated 19% (43.8
million) of Americans continue to smoke 3. Over 40% of smokers make a serious cessation
attempt each year, but annually less than 3% of all smokers successfully quit 4, attesting to the
addictiveness of nicotine and the chronic relapsing nature of nicotine dependence. Several
approved smoking cessation medications exist, including varenicline, bupropion, and several
types of nicotine replacement therapy products (NRT), each with demonstrated efficacy against
placebo 5-8. However, there is considerable heterogeneity in the treatment response both within
and across treatments. In a recent treatment meta-analysis, varenicline and combination NRT
(specifically the nicotine patch combined with the nicotine lozenge) showed superior abstinence
rates compared to all other treatments 9. Individual variation in response to medication suggests
that “one size does not fit all” and improving our understanding of individual level predictors of
treatment outcome is critical to advancement of the field.
The challenge we face in our society as a whole, is how to widely implement and disseminate
effective smoking cessation and prevention strategies across the spectrum of the population. In
the area of cessation, we currently have several cessation interventions that range in intensity,
cost, reach and level of efficacy. These include, for example, physician advice and counseling,
quit-lines, pharmacotherapies, various combinations of these elements, and novel behavioral
treatments. In addition, recent research in smoking cessation has highlighted the potential for
applying pharmacogenetics and novel biomarkers to personalize interventions and maximize
treatment success. Our major challenge lies in knowing how to optimize cessation success for a
given smoker, through selection of a treatment best suited for their particular constellation of
pre-cessation characteristics. Treating everyone with a one-size fits all approach fails to
capitalize on the potential to match smokers to a specific treatment based on factors observable
prior to quitting, (baseline) which previous research has shown to influence treatment success.
These factors may include level of dependence or motivation; presence of a psychiatric disorder
(mood and/or anxiety) or alcohol/substance abuse, individual differences in reward sensitivity,
and genetic profiles associated with response to pharmacotherapy. A second challenge is
posed by the nature of tobacco dependence disorders - a chronic disease characterized by
alternating periods of relapse and remission. Failure to appreciate the chronic nature of tobacco
dependence impedes the treatment of tobacco use and clinicians’ understanding that effective
treatment may require repeated quit attempts and changes in treatment strategy when
cessation is not achieved.
Treatment of chronic, frequently relapsing illnesses often requires sequential decision-making to
maximize the probability of subsequent treatment success, conditional upon what is known
about patients and their responses to previous treatments. Interventions targeting smoking
cessation and abstinence face two types of decisions: 1) choice of treatment initiation, 2) choice
of subsequent treatments if initial attempts at cessation do not succeed. The majority of clinical
trials, parallel-group, randomized, double-blind designs attempt to inform the first decision. They
fall short in two ways: 1) Such trials identify average effects of treatment without addressing
potential heterogeneity in patient response, and 2) These trials fail to address questions
regarding the most efficacious treatment strategies when patients fail to benefit from their initial
treatments.
In this study, we will conduct a Sequential Multiple Assignment Randomized Trial (SMART)
clinical trial in which 500 smokers will be recruited from Harris County and surrounding

