Protocol 2014-0213
August 23, 2023
Page 14 of 45
Start of Medication and Medication Tracking
Subjects will begin self-administration of medication 1 day after Visit 1 and will track their
medication dosing and cigarette consumption throughout the study using smoking diaries that
will be provided to them by the study counselor (See Appendix E).The diary is considered to
be a memory prompt for the participant and will not constitute a protocol deviation if the
subject does not utilize this tool. Only the timeline follow-back information will be used for
validating smoking behavior. A physical pill count will be used for validation of medication
intake. In the event that a discrepancy arises between the study diary, participant’s verbal
report and the physical pill count, study staff will use the physical pill count to determine
medication compliance. Ideally, overall medication compliance is done at Visit 8 (week 12),
once the participant has completed the active treatment phase. If study medication has not
been turned in at Visit 8, compliance will be completed once it has been. In the instance that a
participant has become lost to follow up before turning study medication in, compliance will be
assumed up to the first missed visit after the last contact. To further aid in the determination of
medication compliance, staff will also use the patient's verbal report and medication counts
from previous visits, if applicable. Deviations will not be logged for medications unreturned or
unaccounted for. Ideally, subjects will take medications for a full seven days before the target
quit date (TQD), which occurs on day eight of treatment.
Varenicline Level
A blood draw will be conducted at Visit 5 and Visit 7 to ascertain the level of varenicline in the
blood. The purpose of assessing the varenicline is to determine if there is a correlation between
abstinence and varenicline levels. If a participant reports they have not taken their
varenicline/placebo tablets within the 3 days prior to Visit 5 or 7, no draw will be conducted as
varenicline levels will not be detectable. If a participant is classified as an abstainer at V5 (and
therefore stayed on the current medication assignment), a Varenicline draw will not be
conducted at V7. The additional blood draw for this sample of patients will not yield answers to
research question of dose effect on abstinence since the dose remained constant.
Early Termination of Study Drug
If early termination of study drug is necessary and occurs before the end of the 12-week
treatment period (Visit 8), staff will attempt to complete an early termination visit (ET 8) in order
to collect any end-of-treatment evaluations, regardless of whether the subject continues in the
study. If a subject prematurely and permanently discontinues study drug, they will be
encouraged to continue to be followed in accordance with the study protocol through the end of
the study and will be offered continued smoking cessation counseling as per protocol. The blood
draw (unless redraw requested by study physician) and the end of medication assessment will
not be conducted at Visit 8 if an early termination visit already took place.
Disposition of Study Drug
Occasionally, research subjects may fail to take a scheduled dose of medication. In such
cases, subjects will be instructed to mark the missed dose(s) in their smoking diaries and return
the missed dose(s) of medication to the study team. Returned medications will be logged,
stored in a locked file cabinet maintained by the study team, and will be destroyed per
institutional guidelines. Missed doses will not be logged as protocol deviations because they
are expected in smoking cessation trials (see Appendix OO). In our previous trials about 75%
of all participants take at least 80% of their intended dose of medication. We will, however,
account for medication exposure in our analyses. Unused medications (i.e., those that were

