Protocol 2014-0213
August 23, 2023
Page 24 of 45
assessed/administered. The entire in-person assessment protocol should take no longer than
45 minutes. We have conducted numerous trials using these and many other psychological
and cognitive assessments with little problems in participant compliance. Past experience
has shown us that the longer a participant is enrolled, the greater the chance that they will fail
to complete a visit. So, although we strive to ensure patients complete each visit, we expect
that some will not and as such, we will not require every visit be completed in order to
participate in the study (nor will we log protocol deviations for missed visits; see Appendix
OO). Similarly, we will not log protocol deviations for missing assessments associated with
missed visits.
Treatment
Pharmacotherapy.
All of the commercially available forms of nicotine replacement therapy (NRT), i.e. gum,
transdermal patch, nasal spray, inhaler, lozenge and sublingual tablet, are effective as part of a
strategy to promote smoking cessation, enhancing long-term abstinence rates as much as 50 to
70% 18. The 2008 US clinical practice guidelines 7 state that the long-term use of nicotine patch
with another form of ad lib NRT is more effective than nicotine patch alone and recommend that
physicians consider this option. Varenicline is the latest marketed non–nicotine-based smoking
cessation medication, approved in 2006 in the US. As a partial agonist (or mixed
agonist/antagonist in older terminology), varenicline is thought to enhance smoking abstinence
and diminish nicotine withdrawal symptoms while lowering the rewarding effect of smoking.
Pooled analyses from several early controlled trials reported that varenicline resulted in
cessation rates three times higher than placebo 69-71. A recent meta-analysis reported that
varenicline was more effective than the nicotine patch (OR 1.51; 95% CI 1.22 to 1.87), nicotine
gum (OR 1.72; 95% CI 1.38 to 2.13), and 'other' NRT (inhaler, spray, tablets, lozenges; OR
1.42; 95% CI 1.12 to 1.79), but was not more effective than some combination NRT (OR 1.06;
95% CI 0.75 to 1.48) 72. Combination NRT also outperformed single formulations) 72. Specifically
the NRT combination of patch plus lozenge has been shown to be highly effective against
placebo and mono-therapies including bupropion 9. In another recent treatment meta-analysis
evaluating over 15,000 smokers with a random effects model, varenicline was shown to be
more effective than all other mono-therapies (NRTs; Bupropion) or combinations (NRT
combination and bupropion NRT combinations) at every time point (i.e., end of treatment, 3
month and 6 month follow-up) except at 6 months in comparison to a high dose nicotine patch
and combination NRT. Additional safety information regarding these medications is included in
the Protection of Human Subjects section of this protocol.
All participants will receive both forms of study medication (varenicline and nicotine patch with
ad lib nicotine lozenge, one active and one placebo). Pharmacotherapy (Phase 1) both
Varenicline and NRT (patch plus lozenge), will be initiated the day after the randomization visit
(see Figure 1), 7 days prior to the quit date. During that first week, NPL subjects will receive
placebo varenicline and varenicline subjects will begin active medication. Varenicline dosing will
follow the recommended dosing schedule (i.e., 0.5 mg/day varenicline for days 1-3; 0.5 mg bid;
for days 4-7; and 1 mg bid thereafter). NPL subjects will receive active 21 mg patches and 2 mg
ad lib lozenges; varenicline subjects will be given matching placebo patches and matching
placebo lozenges.
For those participants that are abstinent at week 6 (Visit 5), medication will continue until the
end of treatment (week 12; Visit 8). For those participants who continue to smoke at week 6, a
second randomization (Phase 2) will occur as described previously and subjects will receive 6

