Protocol 2014-0213
August 23, 2023
Page 4 of 45
communities through advertisements and ongoing collaborations with Harris Health and other
community systems. Identified smokers will be offered an opportunity to participate in a
randomized clinical trial offering free smoking cessation counseling and medication. Unlike
many smoking cessation clinical trials, we will attempt to recruit smokers who are ready to quit
as well as those who are not sure or might not be quite ready to make a quit attempt, but are
willing to take part in a study and participate in treatment that might change their smoking
behavior. These “unmotivated” smokers, who are sometimes excluded from pharmacotherapy
clinical trials, will be offered the same medication and behavioral treatment options as the
smokers who are ready to quit, and will be told that they can participate in the study to learn
about smoking reduction and cessation, and change their smoking behavior. This strategy will
allow us to evaluate important treatment questions on a much larger, more representative group
of smokers, thus increasing potential impact on the total smoking population. A handful of
previous treatment studies with these smokers have reported increases in quit attempts as well
as increased abstinence rates 10,11, including one study with varenicline 12. Each participant in
this study will work towards his/her own personal cessation/reduction goals with their assigned
therapist during their brief counseling sessions.
SMART’s constitute a class of designs that address the sequential decision-making problems
that are salient for treatment-recalcitrant, chronically relapsing disorders 13. Randomization/rerandomization of patients at pre-specified decision-points permits estimates of the posterior
probability that a treatment option will result in cessation/abstinence conditional on the patient’s
previous response/non-response. These posterior probabilities will inform clinical treatment
decisions. Randomization of participants to one of two initial, treatment conditions (Phase 1), 21
mg nicotine patch + 2 mg nicotine lozenges to be used as needed to adequately manage and
prevent cravings in high risk situations (NPL), and varenicline 2 mg (2 milligram total daily dose;
VAR) will provide estimates of abstinence at six weeks from the quit-date. Participants
achieving abstinence at this point will remain on the initial treatment. Patients failing to achieve
abstinence, who were initially allocated to NPL or VAR will undergo re-randomization (Phase 2)
to a) continuation of the same treatment; b) switching to the untried intervention (i.e. NPL or
VAR), or; c) augmentation of the NPL treatment with an additional 21 mg nicotine patch (high
dose nicotine patch + 2 mg nicotine lozenges to be used as needed to adequately manage and
prevent cravings in high risk situations; NPL+) or augmentation of the VAR treatment with an
increase in dose from 2 mg (total daily dose) to 3 mg (total daily dose) (high dose varenicline;
VAR+). This permits estimates of the probability of benefit of switching versus augmentation
versus a longer trial of the patient’s current treatment, after they have failed at initially achieving
abstinence. This design permits assessment of the differential effects of strategies available to
participants who initially fail to achieve abstinence. Simultaneously, randomization of
participants permits assessment of differential responding as a function of baseline covariates.
To the degree that reliable subgroup identification is possible subsequent clinical trials will
attempt to enrich randomization such that participants likely to differentially benefit from a
treatment at either of the two decision-points will be randomized to the more favorable treatment
at rates proportional to their probability of benefit. It is likely that sample sizes in some of the
resulting treatment pathways will be relatively small. This is not a reason to avoid such groups:
clinically these decisions are already being made. To the degree that trial data can inform these
clinical decisions they should receive attention 14. As such Bayesian analyses will evaluate both
the effect of a given treatment or treatment strategy, as well as the probability that subgroup
effects exist.15 We will use end-of-treatment (12 weeks) abstinence as the main criterion
variable but will also consider symptoms of withdrawal, craving and negative affect as part of a
multivariate outcome analysis, which will allow us to further distinguish potentially important
outcomes (e.g., withdrawal) where abstinence rates are comparable across treatments.

