Protocol 2014-0213
August 23, 2023
Page 21 of 45
grades will be determined using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events
(CTCAE), version 4.03, published by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.
A response time matrix will be used to guide the medical team on how long they have to
respond (immediately to 48 hours) to the notice of an adverse event based on its rating. If
someone from the medical team deems it clinically appropriate, the medical team or study staff
may provide the subject with patient education materials printed from the MD Anderson
database related to the AE they are experiencing. The subject will not be taken off study drug
unless the study physician or his/her personal physician recommends that we do so. Liver
(LFT’s) and renal function renal function (creatinine clearance) will be evaluated at baseline and
at the end of treatment. Out of range values at baseline will be logged in the subject’s medical
history. Blood chemistries will be repeated as needed accordingly when clinically warranted. If
the subject does not attend the Visit 8 End of Treatment visit, a blood draw may be conducted at
the first follow up visit the subject attends. Participants reporting chest pain or chest pressure
will be administered a Chest Pain/Chest Pressure questionnaire (see Appendix G.) and will be
triaged accordingly.
Adverse events will be reviewed by our medical personnel and the PI. The study physician
may adjust medication doses as consistent with good clinical practice to manage AEs
according to his/her clinical judgment. Medication doses may also be adjusted if subjects’
reports of side effects cause concern even if there are no specific subject complaints. Adverse
event monitoring will continue up to 30 days after medication is completed. If an AE is
spontaneously reported after the AE reporting period is over, the AE will be recorded in the
patient’s progress notes. Those AEs that are probably, possibly or definitely related to
treatment will be followed until resolution or end of study, whichever comes first. In the case of
reports of suicidal ideation, depression or anxiety which we believe may be related to
treatment, if possible, we will engage in our normal psychological assessments (see Appendix
H). This may not always be possible if reported by phone. In any case, procedures for Good
Clinical Practice will be followed with respect to medical management of the symptoms. A
specific plan for monitoring increased depression and suicidality is presented in the appendix
(see Appendix H). Details regarding the monitoring/management of treatment-emergent
anxiety are also included in Appendix H. The clinical assessment tool we use is the HAD (the
Hospital Depression and Anxiety Scale) and the procedures outlined in Appendix H apply to
both symptoms of anxiety and depression. Moreover, because aggression and irritability are
intimately associated with anxiety, these symptoms are also captured in our monitoring and
management procedures. Treatment- emergent psychosis is extremely rare in smoking
cessation trials. If it does occur, it will be captured by our assessment of adverse events.
These cases will be referred for further evaluation by a Ph.D. licensed Clinical Psychologist
and/or the Addiction Psychiatrist, who is a co-investigator on this protocol. The Addiction
Psychiatrist will determine the course of clinical management according to methods of good
clinical practice. The PI or physician is responsible for determining the attribution of adverse
events to study medication.
For this trial, AEs will be recorded according to the Recommended Adverse Event Recording
Guidelines for Phase III protocols (see shaded areas of the AE table below).
Serious Adverse Event Reporting (SAE) Reporting MD Anderson IND Office Guidelines
An adverse event or suspected adverse reaction is considered “serious” if, in the view of either
the investigator or the sponsor, it results in any of the following outcomes:
Table 6. Recommended Adverse Event Recording Guidelines

