Protocol 2014-0213
August 23, 2023
Page 12 of 45
on changes in psychiatric symptoms and or medication that suggest a clinically meaningful
worsening of their condition. They will also be asked to provide blood samples at this visit.
One sample will be used to perform blood chemistry tests to test the following: Bilirubin,
Creatinine, GGT, AST, and ALT. These tests are conducted so that liver and kidney function
can be assessed. The second blood sample will be used to measure the Nicotine Metabolite
Ratio (NMR). The NMR blood sample will be processed at MD Anderson, and may be banked
for future testing and use in future studies. Participants unable to complete the Baseline
screening visit within 30 days of the initial telephone assessment will be allowed to undergo a
second telephone assessment and given an additional 30 days to complete the Baseline
screening visit. If they do not complete the Baseline by this time point, they will no longer be
considered eligible for study participation and must undergo a 90-day waiting period to reenroll. Participants will not be randomized into the study at baseline screening given that they
must complete the medical screening and the results of the lab work must be received before
final eligibility can be determined. Participants who remain eligible after the baseline screening
visit will be scheduled to return for the second in- clinic (medical) screening visit (Visit 1) within
30 days. If initial lab values are abnormal, blood work may be repeated before V1. Study
physicians will use the results of the second blood draw to determine the accuracy of the initial
values and to make a more informed decision regarding study eligibility. If a participant is
eligible for another one of our research studies but is not enrolled in that study, the MINI,
laboratory tests, and blood pressure collected for that study will be considered valid for 30-60
days and may be used in consideration of determining initial eligibility on this study.
Participants will be registered in the institutional database (CORe) within 2 business days of
signing consent.
Medical Screening. The Medical Screening will occur at either the Baseline Screening Visit or
within 30 days of the Baseline Screening visit (at Visit 1) to determine final eligibility. During the
Baseline Screening Visit or Visit 1, a member of the medical team (MD, PA, APN or Clinical
Nurse) will review with the participant medical information collected at the baseline screening
visit, e.g., medical/surgical history, results of blood work (if applicable), vital signs and
concomitant medications to ensure the accuracy of the information reported and to make sure
there is nothing new to add. A qualified medical professional (MD, PA or APN) will be
conducting a full physical examination on all participants. Those patients who are medically
stable in the last 3 months as evidenced by no acute exacerbation in their symptoms would be
cleared to randomization. Following screening, a second consenting process will take place that
covers consent to participate in the actual treatment. The treatment informed consent will be
obtained and signed by a licensed physician, following the required review of systems and brief
physical exam, conducted by mid-level staff. A licensed physician will meet each study subject,
review any questions they may have, and confirm that the patient understands the nature of the
research being performed. The licensed physician may conduct this consenting process either
in person or via an institutionally approved platform (e.g., Microsoft Lync and/or Polycom). If the
consenting is performed via videoconferencing, the same procedures as described above will
be followed. After completing the treatment consent procedure a prescription will be completed
as per protocol to be filled by the pharmacy at MD Anderson Cancer Center. The medical staff
(RN, PA, APN, or study physician) will also provide written documentation (dictated to medical
chart) that the PA, APN, or study physician medically cleared the potential subject to participate
on the protocol and the subject will be randomized into treatment. If a person is deemed
ineligible for medical reasons, s/he will notified either in person, via phone or by letter and
referred to his/her physician for follow-up, if applicable. Medical personnel may also delay
clearance until any screening issues, which are not exclusionary, have been addressed by the
potential subject’s personal physician.

