Protocol 2014-0213
August 23, 2023
Page 20 of 45
assessments include no delays 57 and EMA reactivity is nonexistent or small 65. Other smart
phone features will include automatic real-time download of data to our server, appointment
reminders, as well as the option to call and/or text participants if the expected data are not
forthcoming (e.g., no diary input on a given day). Missed EMA assessments will not be logged
as protocol deviations because they are expected in smoking cessation trials.
The EMA application has gone through a risk assessment process and has been approved
by Governance, Risk, and Compliance (GRC) at MD Anderson (See appendix CCC).
Application ID APPID-267543.
The EMA component will be initiated by those subjects randomized after the application is
complete and ready for use. In the event the application is not ready for use, those randomized
subjects will not participate in the EMA, and a deviation will not be logged.
Abstinence. Abstinence data will be collected at all contacts using a timeline follow-back (TLFB)
procedure 66,67 as we have done in our previous studies 28. In addition to cigarette smoking, we
will also use the TLFB procedure to measure the use of other forms of tobacco and nicotine,
such as cigars and e-cigarettes. Abstinence outcomes conform to the Society of Research on
Nicotine and Tobacco (SRNT) 68 guidelines. In this study, end of treatment (EOT) seven-day
point prevalence abstinence (no smoking for the past 7 days) will serve as the primary outcome
measure.
Secondary outcome measures will include continuous and prolonged abstinence at the 3 and 6
months follow-up. The common starting point for assessing prolonged abstinence is the end of
the grace period (i.e., 2 weeks following EOT here). For prolonged abstinence, relapse is
defined by smoking 5 or more cigarettes from the end of the grace period to a future time point
(e.g., EOT, 3- and 6- months post-quit date) 68. We will also assess continuous abstinence over
the 4 weeks after EOT of treatment (i.e. EOT-plus 30 days). This time frame for validating
continuous abstinence is consistent with the FDA requirements for establishing efficacy in all
recent pharmacotherapy, including the pivotal studies of varenicline 69,70.
All data will be obtained at EOT, 3 months and 6 months post-quit. In-person reports of
abstinence will be verified by expired CO < 6ppm and/or salivary cotinine of < 15 ng/ml at
follow-up. Participants unavailable for timeline follow-back assessment will be considered nonabstinent.
Cotinine. Cotinine is the first metabolite of nicotine and has a half-life of about 20 hrs. Urine
cotinine will be obtained at the time of randomization and at follow-up points shown in Table 1.
Cotinine values will provide information regarding the participant’s tobacco exposure within the
previous 24-36 hours. Baseline cotinine values will be used in the descriptive analyses of
smoker characteristics, along with other variables from the smoking history questionnaire.
Cotinine values (<15ng/ml) from subsequent assessments will be used as a crosscheck on
abstinence requirements during follow-ups for those individuals reporting abstinence but unable
to complete an in person visit (where expired CO would be assessed). Urine samples will also
be used to analyze nicotine and Anabasine levels. Anabasine is used as a biological marker to
determine if nicotine is present in the blood due to a nicotine replacement therapy or from
tobacco use. If a participant is unable to provide a urine sample for cotinine, a saliva sample
will be taken instead.
Adverse Event Monitoring & Concomitant Medication.
Participants will be assessed for side effects and concomitant medications using standard
FDA guidelines recommended for these two procedures. Adverse event terminology and

