Protocol 2014-0213
August 23, 2023
Page 26 of 45
the distribution of factors within treatment group as a cross check on the program’s accuracy.
We have implemented this process in several other protocols.
Breaking the Blind. Un-blinding of single cases by the investigator will only be performed if
relevant for the safety of the participant. The PI along with the Program Director (PD) will be
responsible for implementing procedures for maintaining the blind and for breaking the blind
when necessary. The PI must notify the IND Medical Monitor/Office prior to the un-blinding of
a participant. In emergency situations, the Principal Investigator (PI) would consult with the
Program Director (PD) and/or the research team’s Data Management Supervisor (DMS) to
obtain immediate blinding information for the participant. The PD/DMS would then pass this
information on to the PI to enable the participant to be treated. In non-emergency situations, the
same procedures would apply, however the PI and PD will discuss and evaluate the request,
then, the PI after consulting with the study physician would be responsible for making the
decision of whether or not to un-blind. When the blinding code is broken, the reason will be fully
documented and included on the appropriate data collection forms. Additionally, since
unblinding can affect the integrity of the study, any unblinding that occurs will be reported to the
MDACC DSMB. The PI will request the DSMB to approve the release of unblinded data after all
subjects have completed the follow up period. After the DSMB has approved the release of the
unblinded study data, subjects can be provided with their medication assignment(s) if
requested.
Behavioral Counseling As shown in Table 1, following randomization all smokers will receive
brief individual behavioral smoking cessation counseling as is the recommended standard for
use with pharmacotherapy 7. The counseling protocol is manual driven (see Appendices J and
K), has been used in several of our previous studies 28,45,73, and will consist of 4 in-person and 4
phone visits and up to 4 brief supportive phone calls (one day pre-quit,3 days post quit, 3 days
post rerandomization and 14 days post rerandomization), lasting 10-15 minutes each, spanning
the 12 week active treatment phase. This is similar to previous studies with varenicline 69,70
though we will provide slightly fewer (10 versus 12) treatment sessions. The phase 2 safety
calls (the 3 day post rerandomization and the 14 day post rerandomization safety calls) will not
be conducted for abstinent participants or participants that have come off study medication.
Counseling content will follow our previous study 28 and briefly involves preparation for quitting,
identification of high risk situations for smoking, development of coping skills and direct support
before and after the quit date, motivational intervention 74 for keeping or resetting a quit date,
management of withdrawal symptoms and medication compliance.. We have extensive
experience from our previous trials in training and monitoring the integrity of the counseling
protocol including recording time and content of each session 28,45,73.
Participant Compensation Following randomization, participants will be remunerated up to $594
plus parking vouchers or metro cards (if available) for completing all visits and assessments
from baseline/screening through the end of the study. This includes up to $84 for completion of
all EMA assessments, and $30 (EMA) phone return bonus. See Appendix L for the
Compensation Schedule. In an effort to reduce clinic burden, when the Ver 12 revision is
approved, we will begin sending questionnaire links to participants in advance of their scheduled
clinic visits and offering a $10 bonus if they complete electronically prior to coming in to the
clinic visit. The current compensation scheme has been adjusted accordingly and will only
effect newly consented participants after the revision is approved. Those that already signed
consent (whether screening and/or treatment) under the previous scheme will be compensated
according to the previous scheme. Questionnaire links are already sent to participants prior to
scheduled phone visits but there is no compensation bonus associated with completion prior to
the scheduled call.

