Protocol 2014-0213
August 23, 2023
Page 23 of 45
x Additionally, any serious adverse events that occur after the 30 day time period that are related to
the study treatment must be reported to the IND Office. This may include the development of a
secondary malignancy.
Reporting to FDA:
x Serious adverse events will be forwarded to FDA by the IND Sponsor (Safety Project Manager
IND Office) according to 21 CFR 312.32.
It is the responsibility of the PI and the research team to ensure serious adverse events
are reported according to the Code of Federal Regulations, Good Clinical Practices, the
protocol guidelines, the sponsor’s guidelines, and Institutional Review Board policy.
Investigator Communications with Pfizer
For all IIR studies using a Pfizer Product and/or Device: Pfizer requires that, within 24 hours of
first awareness of the event (or immediately) if the event is fatal or life-threatening), the principal
investigator will report to Pfizer by facsimile any Serious Adverse Event (SAE) that occurs
during the SAE reporting period in a study subject assigned to receive the Pfizer product. In
addition, for studies using a Pfizer device or Pfizer product packaged with a device, reportable
events include not only SAEs but also Device Incidents and Device Near-Incidents.
Reporting Forms: The principal investigator will report such SAEs using the Pfizer IIR SAE
reporting form or the approved local regulatory form (i.e. FDA MEDWATCH form, CIOMS, etc.)
and the Reportable Event Fax Cover Sheet provided by Pfizer. SAEs should be reported as
soon as they are determined to meet the definition, even if complete information is not yet
available.
Reporting Period: The Reportable Events that are subject to this provision are those that occur
from after the first dose of the Pfizer product through 28 days after discontinuation of the Pfizer
product.
Follow-up Information: The institution and/or principal investigator will assist Pfizer in
investigating any SAE and will provide any follow-up information reasonably requested by
Pfizer.
Regulatory Reporting: Reporting an SAE to Pfizer does not relieve the institution and/or
principal investigator of the responsibility for reporting it to the FDA or local regulatory authority,
as required.
Assessment Protocol and Participant Burden. All abstinence and self-report assessments will
be conducted by either counseling or non-counseling research staff (e.g., counseling
associates, research coordinators, research assistants, nursing and medical staff, etc), who
like other staff are blind to medication assignment. Self-report measures are administered on
a computer-based program or by phone. To reduce the potential frequency of missing data,
we follow a standardized procedure for contacting the participant with appointment reminders
by telephone, text and/or email and sometimes letters and in the event a session is missed
every attempt is made to reschedule the visit within the designated window. As a last resort,
telephone visits may be conducted for certain in-person visits. In these cases Adverse
Events, Concomitant Medications, Abstinence Questionnaire, PHQ and counseling may be

