Protocol 2014-0213
August 23, 2023
Page 37 of 45
and other studies making it difficult to reach any firm conclusions regarding drug relatedness.
However, we do have a context for understanding suicidality in relation to smoking. Nicotine
dependence has the third highest population attributable fraction for suicide attempts of any
psychiatric diagnosis after major depression and borderline personality 94, and is associated
with an increased rate of suicides in patients seeking treatment independent of having a
psychiatric disorder 95. In addition, the large observational studies noted above did not find a
signal for suicidal behavior 92,93.
In conclusion, the body of empirical evidence suggests that varenicline is a safe and effective
medication for smoking cessation in a variety of patient populations including those with no
current psychiatric disorder, and those with stable depression and schizophrenia. While we
must always weigh the risk and benefits surrounding the use of any medication, the risk of
neuropsychiatric adverse events among these groups, particularly for depression, anxiety,
hostility, suicidal ideation and suicide itself, may be no more than what is expected within a
population of smokers who are attempting to quit. In contrast, the risks of continued smoking for
cardiovascular disease, cancer, COPD and other chronic diseases are well established.
Continued research on smoking cessation among those with psychiatric disorders is highly
important, as such individuals have a disproportionately high smoking prevalence 3.
A currently on-going trial sponsored by Pfizer is directly examining the safety of varenicline vs.
bupropion, nicotine patch and placebo among smokers with and without current psychiatric
disorders. The results of this trial which will include 8000 smokers will provide a definitive
answer to the question of varenicline safety but the empirical evidence thus far appears
contradictory to the post-marketing reports of increased risk of neuropsychiatric symptoms
during smoking cessation pharmacotherapy.
Augmentation: Varenicline 3 mg. Only individuals who tolerate the starting 2 mg varenicline
dosing regimen well but continue to smoke will be eligible for augmentation. Two prior
open label studies have shown promising results in the augmentation of varenicline treatment
for smoking cessation. In both studies the dose was increased from 2 mg to 3 mg if patients
tolerated varenicline well but continued smoking. In one study that included 73 patients who
continued to smoke after 8 weeks of varenicline 2 mg treatment, 4 additional weeks of
varenicline 3 mg treatment resulted in 40% abstinence rates. The increase in dosage was
associated with adverse events in 22 patients (30%) 16, though they were mostly mild. Only 2
patients discontinued treatment due to adverse events (nausea, in both cases). More
specifically, the reported events are as follows: nausea (22), abnormal dreams (17), vomiting
(13), insomnia (12), and headache (7). No neuropsychiatric events were reported. A naturalistic
study with an open label design conducted here at MD Anderson Cancer Center involved 88
cancer patients that received varenicline for 12 weeks. Of those, 44 patients received 2 mg/day
for the whole 12 weeks and 44 got an increase to 3 mg per day (2 mg q.a.m. and 1 mg q.p.m.)
between weeks 6 and 8. At the end of treatment, 4 out of the 44 patients (9%) in the 2mg
control group and 11 out of the 44 patients (25%) in the experimental group (3 mg) achieved
abstinence. Patients whose medication was increased to a higher dosage (3 mg) were
significantly more likely than those who continued to received 2 mg varenicline to report 7-day
abstinence at week 12 (Ȥ2 = 3.94, p = .05, OR = 3.33, 95% CI: 1.12 – 11.45) 17. No increase in
neuropsychiatric side effects was noted. In both cases, the results suggest that the increase in
dosage was not only incrementally and statistically beneficial in achieving abstinence, but was
also well-tolerated by the participants.
Adverse Experiences Associated with Nicotine Replacement Therapy (NRT): All of the
commercially available forms of nicotine replacement therapy (NRT), i.e. gum, transdermal

