Physical Activity Measurement

Study Member Obtaining Physical Activity Measurements

Performed by trained research coordinators.

Instruments Used

ActiGraph provided a cloud-based service platform, CenterPoint, which enabled automated and manual
capture of actigraphy data from the ActiGraph monitor. At the baseline visit, participants were provided
with (1) the ActiGraph activity monitor, (2) a CenterPoint (CP) data hub, (3) charging dock, (4) power
cable, and (5) USB cable, along with a participant guide containing detailed instructions (pictured below).
The CP data hub used a 3G cellular connection (covered by the study team) to transmit data from the
activity monitor to the study team via the CenterPoint cloud software, without relying on participants’
home WiFi. Using Bluetooth technology, the data hub automatically captured data when the monitor was
in proximity. In addition, participants were instructed to upload raw data after each wear period by
physically connecting the activity monitor to the data hub using the USB cable and charging dock. This
ensured that raw high-resolution acceleration data were transmitted reliably. The study team monitored
participant compliance remotely via CenterPoint, which tracked both Bluetooth-based and manual data
uploads.

The instruments used to measure physical activity (MVPA) were the ActiGraph GT9X-BT Link and
Centrepoint Insight Watch (CPIW) — FDA-cleared devices that can distinguish non-wear time from
physical inactivity. Due to connectivity and uploading issues with some participants in the beginning of
the trial, the study investigators decided to switch from the GT9X-BT to CPIW watch, to ensure the
integrity and completeness of trial data. Among the 368 randomized participants, 33 were assigned to the
GT9X-BT at baseline and as the switch took place, they were provided with the new CPIW and their data
from the GT9X-BT was retrieved.

Both devices captured and recorded high-resolution raw acceleration data, which were converted into a
variety of objective activity measures. The CPIW, which was the newer model of the ActiGraph wrist
monitor, had an extended 30-day battery life, allowing for continuous wear time during the scheduled
wear period. This minimized participant burden and the potential for missing data associated with
frequent device charging.




© 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI
training, and similar technologies.
