Data Quality Processes

Clinical data (including adverse effects and concomitant medications) and laboratory data were entered
into REDCap (Research Electronic Data Capture), a 21 CFR Part 11-compliant data capture system
provided by Johns Hopkins University. The data system included password protection and internal quality
checks, for any source of data that had impacts on the trial’s outcomes for each participant. These quality
measures included missing data algroups and automatic range checks for BMI, weight, A1C, Proof of
A1C measurement, height, Actigraph physical activity start and end dates, and whether Actigraph
physical activity was completed, to identify data that appeared inconsistent, incomplete, or inaccurate,
clinical data were entered directly from the source documents.

To obtain, assess, and convert the Actigraph physical activity data, research coordinators and staff were
trained to work with multiple Centrepoint test accounts, which included only test data created by staff and
no actual participant data. After each month of physical activity completion, research coordinators and
staff downloaded and exported the participants’ data in SafeDesktop in the form of a gt3x file. During the
conversions and analysis of files, research staff and coordinators carefully assessed the participants’ wear
period data to identify any missing wear periods. For those with missing wear periods, research staff
would check the REDCap participant files for any particular notes, and CentrePoint to ensure that the data
was missing due to participants not complying, rather than the staff missing the wear periods from the
CentrePoint platform.

In terms of analyzing, assessing, and converting the physical activity data, several conversions and steps
were required, which were completed in SafeDesktop provided by Johns Hopkins. Physical activity data
was first downloaded in gt3x format and placed in SafeDesktop, where it was then converted to CSV
files. CSV files were then converted to Moderate to Vigorous Physical Data (MVPA) per day in a
STATA .dta file. The PI and research staff trained in STATA used this converted data and data exported
from REDCap to assess physical activity outcomes and completion at 6-months and 12-months. To
ensure quality of outcome data, the STATA log file that demonstrated the outcomes after coding was also
uploaded to REDCap, where research coordinators would run the log file for each participant.

Research staff and coordinators the Reports feature in REDCap to create different reports for analysis
purposes and identifying missing or incorrect values for different variables and fields. Reports were also
used to summarize overall data and increase the efficiency of the data analysis, management, and quality
control process.




© 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI
training, and similar technologies.
