                                            visit were recorded. These participants were marked
                                            having failed to achieve endpoint, regardless of body
                                            weight and physical activity improvements. Our study did
                                            not adjudicate the diagnosis of diabetes, which requires
                                            two confirmatory tests.
 eTable 14            Per Protocol          Changes in continuous measures of secondary endpoints
                                            (body weight, A1C) and weekly physical activity at 12
                                            months.
 eTable 15            Per protocol          Primary outcome and secondary binary outcomes analyzed
                                            within the per protocol population using statistical
                                            methods described in the Main Manuscript.
 eTable 16            Randomized            In the primary analysis, participants who did not return for
                      Population            their 12-month visit were classified as treatment failures.
                                            As a sensitivity analysis, missing 12-month outcome data
                                            were addressed using multiple imputation by chained
                                            equations, under the assumption that data were missing at
                                            random. The imputation model included study group,
                                            baseline values (weight, physical activity, A1C),
                                            demographic characteristics, and program engagement
                                            metrics (weeks wherein AI-DPP was used for AI-DPP
                                            participants and session attendance for Human-DPP
                                            participants, normalized within each group). Twenty
                                            imputed datasets were generated and combined using
                                            Rubin’s rules.
 eTable 17            Randomized            As a sensitivity analysis to assess potential violations of
                      Population            the missing at random assumption, we conducted a pattern
                                            mixture model analysis in which outcome achievement
                                            rates were differentially imputed for participants with
                                            missing 12-month data. Specifically, we assumed that all
                                            AI-DPP non-completers failed to achieve the primary
                                            outcome (0% success), while Human-DPP non-completers
                                            were assumed to have the same outcome achievement rate
                                            as observed among completers in that group (37.8%). This
                                            scenario imposes a directional bias against the AI-DPP and
                                            provides a conservative test of non-inferiority.
 eTable 18a           Randomized            For the individuals who did not wear their Actigraph
                      Population            monitor during their assigned periods, weekly physical
                                            activity was assumed to be 0 in the primary analysis
                                            (representing a “worst case” scenario). In this sensitivity
                                            analysis of the primary endpoint, we identified individuals
                                            who did not meet 100% Actigraph compliance and
                                            assumed that they would have achieved 150 weekly min of
                                            physical activity had they worn their Actigraph monitor.
                                            The table in this section displays the results of this “best-
                                            case” scenario sensitivity analysis.
 eTable 18b           Randomized            Given the limitations of the physical activity measurement
                      Population            described in the main manuscript, we conducted a
                                            sensitivity analysis of the primary outcome where we
                                            assumed all participants attained the 150 min/week
                                            physical activity guideline.
© 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI
training, and similar technologies.
