                                                                                                                                                              5


urinary p75 extracellular domain (p75ecd), ; 6 clinical outcome measures (HHD), quantitative motor speech (9 features), home vital

capacity, ALSFRS-R domain scores, the ALS Assessment Questionnaire (ALSAQ-40) and its domain scores, and the Center for

Neurologic Study – Bulbar Function Scale (CNS-BFS); and 11 time-to-event analyses (3 events related to cutoffs in trial endpoints,

such as time to decline of at least 6 points on the ALSFRS-R, and 8 exploring clinical events such as time to first serious adverse

event). Plasma NfL was added later as a post-hoc analysis. Only relevant exploratory analyses are presented in this manuscript.

Details about all exploratory measures and their analyses can be found in the statistical analysis plan (available as a Supplement).



Analysis of Dosages

The main analysis for primary, secondary, safety and exploratory measures was on the combined 30mg and 60mg daily dosages

compared to placebo. Prespecified exploratory analyses compared each dose to placebo directly for all primary, secondary, and

exploratory endpoints.



Analysis Populations

The primary analysis population for both the primary and secondary endpoints, referred to as the Full Analysis Set (FAS), included all

participants randomized to the Regimen C active treatment arm, all participants randomized to the placebo arm within Regimen C, and

all placebo participants from Regimens A, B, and D. Participants were analyzed according to the treatment group to which they were

randomized within their respective regimen to estimate a treatment policy estimand. Additional prespecified efficacy analyses were

                                                                                                                                                              5

                 © 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.
