                                                                                                                                                               2


Consultants, Massachusetts General Hospital, and Pentara Corporation. Clene provided the active drug and placebo and was involved

in the trial design, data analysis, and manuscript review.



Trial Participants

Those who were eligible for the platform trial were adults with a diagnosis of clinically possible, probable, lab-supported probable, or

definite ALS defined by revised El Escorial criteria, disease duration ≤ 36 months, a vital capacity ≥ 50% predicted for age, height,

and sex, the ability to swallow pills and liquids, and either no use of riluzole and/or edaravone or stable dosing of riluzole and/or

edaravone for more than 30 days or one cycle, respectively. Those eligible for the CNM-Au8 regimen could not be allergic to gold.

Full inclusion and exclusion criteria can be viewed in the trial protocol available as a Supplement.



Randomization techniques

Both the randomization to regimen, which was not blinded, and the randomization to active drug or placebo within a regimen, which

was blinded to both participant and investigator, were done using as pre-determined randomization schedule. In order to ensure

balance in regimens and treatment groups by current medication use, both randomization schedules were stratified by baseline use of

riluzole and edaravone (4 strata total).

Random assignment to a regimen was done. Random assignment to a regimen within a stratum uses a block urn design (Zhao and

Wang; Block urn design - a new randomization algorithm for sequential trials with two or more treatments and balanced or

                                                                                                                                                               2

                  © 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.
