                                                                                                                                                               7


of 0.50, they would be expected to reach the same milestone (ALSFRS-R decrease of 6 points) over 12 months on treatment.

Similarly for survival, if they were expected to survive for a median time of 9 months on control, under the treatment they would be

expected to survive for 18 months. In the functional component, ALSFRS-R is measured for those who have survived using a linear

repeated measure model that adjusts for baseline covariates and accommodates potential differences in the shared control across

regimens. The survival component is measured through an exponential proportional hazards model. The shared treatment effect

between the ALSFRS-R and mortality components allows the participants who were lost to follow-up due to mortality to inform

treatment effect estimates beyond their censored ALSFRS-R longitudinal data. The degree to which treatment effects on mortality

inform the shared-treatment effect parameter depends on the mortality rate within the study.

The primary analysis includes concurrent shared controls across regimens. It is expected that there will not be systematic differences

in rates of progression in controls across regimens. The platform enrols participants under the same master protocol, across the same

sites, during the same time period, and with only very minor differences in regimen-specific inclusion/exclusion. However, minor

differences across the shared controls may be present due to these minor differences in inclusion/exclusion and due to differences in

the modes of administration. To account for these potential differences, the primary analysis is conducted within a Bayesian

hierarchical meta-analytic framework. As such, the regimen-specific random effects on the rate of progression for controls are

assumed to come from an underlying hierarchical distribution with unknown population mean and variability. The population mean

and variability (hyper-parameters) within the hierarchical distribution are given a prior distribution, and posterior estimates are

obtained from the data. If the variability in the rate of progression is estimated to be small, the model will borrow more information

                                                                                                                                                               7

                  © 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.
