                                                                                                                                                              10


limit of detection or only one replicate yielded an NfL concentration, the replicates were repeated. If the coefficient of variation (CV)

for these two replicates was >25%, the replicates were repeated; the repeat replicates were used unless their CV was higher than the

original. If a serum sample value was <LOQ, the value was imputed by using the assay LOD. For the primary analysis, no outliers

were omitted.



Serum NfL in the Full Analysis set was the prespecified exploratory endpoint for NfL. However, for this regimen, serum samples

were tested with all longitudinal samples from a single participant tested on the same plate (different than other regimens). Only

regimen samples were tested in this way, thus a post-hoc exploratory analysis of only regimen samples is presented. In addition,

plasma samples were tested using a multiplex assay (Neurology 4 Plex-A, Quanterix) that included NfL, glial fibrillary acidic protein

(GFAP), tau, and ubiquitin carboxy-terminal hydrolase L1 (UCH-L1) with two replicates from each aliquot performed. The plasma

analysis was pre-specified in Clene Nanomedicine’s Pharmacodynamic SAP originally as UCH-L1 alone, but due to non-availability

of the UCH-L1 assay the Neurology 4 Plex-A (including NfL) was analyzed, thus it is considered post-hoc for the purposes of this

manuscript.



Sites were instructed to process serum and plasma samples within 30 minutes of collection and stored at -80C for batch shipment to

the lab using standard operating procedures as described in prior studies. Samples were tested on a 96-well plate with high and low-

level quality control standards to allow for correction of plate-to-plate variability. NfL values were log-transformed prior to analysis.

                                                                                                                                                              10

                 © 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.
