                                                                                                                                                               1


eMethods



Trial Design and Oversight

The HEALEY ALS Platform Trial is a novel, efficient, perpetual design, platform trial designed to test multiple investigational

products against placebo in parallel. In this platform trial, each new investigational product is tested as a regimen specific appendix,

or “Regimen” to the master protocol. CNM-Au8 was evaluated in Regimen C (RGC) of the HEALEY ALS Platform Trial, a

randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial enrolled and followed participants at 54 Northeast ALS Consortium (NEALS)

centers in the United States between July 2020 and March 2022. The trial was conducted in accordance with Good Clinical Practice

guidelines of the International Conference on Harmonization and ethical principles of the Declaration of Helsinki. Protocol approval

was provided for all trial sites by a central Institutional Review Board, the Massachusetts General Brigham Human Research

Committee. All participants provided written informed consent prior to screening.



The trial was designed by and conducted through the NEALS network, a global collaborative trial network (www.neals.org), in

collaboration with Clene Nanomedicine, Inc. (Clene). Participant-level data were obtained at each trial site and stored in the electronic

data capture system for the trial at Massachusetts General Hospital. An independent Data and Safety Monitoring Board reviewed

unblinded safety data at pre-defined intervals throughout the trial. Statistical analyses were performed by biostatisticians at Berry




                                                                                                                                                               1

                  © 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.
