                                                                                                                    24
                                                   a subsequent operation that was indicated due to a SAE from
                                                   the IH repair (e.g. laparotomy for bowel injury during initial IH
                                                   repair)
      Injury to adjacent structure / organ         Injury thought to result from surgery that was identified the IH
                                                   repair operation (and recorded in the operative report) or
                                                   subsequently
      Wound disruption (deep)++                    Dehiscence of the surgical wound, including the deep (external
                                                   oblique) fascia
      Surgical site infection (deep)++             Infection occurring within 30 days after IH repair, which involves
                                                   deep soft tissues (e.g. fascia and muscle) AND at least ONE of
                                                   the following: purulent drainage from deep incision; deep
                                                   incision dehisces or is deliberately opened by provider; abscess
                                                   is documented in medical record; deep SSI is recorded by
                                                   surgeon or other attending physician
      Other SAE that requires intervention to      Any serious adverse event that is recorded in the patient record
      prevent or address patient harm              that requires specific intervention to address or prevent harm
942   *The period of ascertainment is from enrollment through 10 months after enrollment.
943
944   **PACU = post anesthesia care unit (aka. Recovery room)
945
946   ++Adapted from existing definition used by American College of Surgeons Pediatric National Surgical Quality
947   Improvement Project (ACS NSQIP). Dr. Blakely (HIP Trial PI) serves on the national data definitions
948   committee for NSQIP.
949
950
951
952   3. National Coordinating Council for Medication Error Reporting and Prevention. NCC MERP index for
953   categorizing medication errors.
954




955
956
