Research Original Investigation

A

ugmenting enteral protein is proposed as an inexpensive intervention to attenuate muscle atrophy and
weakness and improve outcomes from critical illness.1
International clinical practice guidelines recommend augmenting protein delivery to at least 1.2 g/kg of body weight per
day,2-4 whereas patients typically receive 50% to 60% of this,5,6
which is closer to that recommended for healthy individuals.7
Recently, 2 randomized clinical trials (RCTs) of augmented protein reported no difference in the time to discharge alive from
hospital, but lower health-related quality of life scores in patients randomized to receive augmented protein.8,9 An updated systematic review and meta-analysis identified considerable uncertainty as to whether augmenting protein was
beneficial or harmful.10
Following a feasibility study11 and prior to publication of
the 2 recent randomized clinical trials,8,9 the TARGET Protein trial was commenced to evaluate the effect of augmenting enteral protein during critical illness. The hypothesis was
that augmenting enteral protein would increase the number
of days alive and free of hospitalization.

Methods
Design, Setting, and Participants
This investigator-initiated, cluster randomized, crossover, openlabel, clinical trial included critically ill patients enrolled at 8
intensive care units (ICUs) in Australia and New Zealand. The
trial was registered (Australian and New Zealand Clinical Trials
Registry Identifier 12621001484831) on November 1, 2021; the
study protocol12 (Supplement 1) and statistical analysis plan13
(Supplement 2) have been previously published. This study follows the Consolidated Standards of Reporting Trials (CONSORT)
reporting guideline with extension to cluster randomized
crossover trials.14
The protocol was approved by the Central Adelaide Local
Health Network Human Research Ethics Committee for
Australian sites and the Southern Health and Disability Ethics
Committee for the New Zealand site. The trial was conducted
using a hybrid model of consent using either a waiver of consent or verbal or written consent to continue as appropriate
(eMethods in Supplement 3).12
Four ICUs commenced participant recruitment on May
23, 2022, and 4 sites commenced on August 23, 2022, with
each ICU recruiting for 12 months. Eligible patients were 16
years or older and prescribed enteral nutrition during their
index admission to the ICU or prescribed enteral nutrition
for the first time in the ICU during a subsequent ICU admission in the index hospital admission. Patients were
excluded if the treating clinician considered the trial enteral
nutrition to be contraindicated or if 12 or more hours of nontrial enteral nutrition had been delivered in the ICU. Complete inclusion and exclusion criteria are provided in eTable 1
in Supplement 3.
ICUs were randomly assigned to provide 1 of 2 treatment
sequences alternating between augmented protein/usual protein or vice versa for 3-month blocks over a 12-month period
(eFigure 1 in Supplement 3; Figure 1). Participants continued
320

Augmented Enteral Protein During Critical Illness

Key Points
Question Does augmentation of enteral protein improve
outcomes in critically ill patients?
Findings In this cluster randomized, crossover, open-label trial of
3397 patients from 8 intensive care units, additional enteral
protein did not increase days free of the index hospital and alive at
day 90 compared with usual care (median difference, −1.97 days).
Meaning Augmenting enteral protein for patients in the intensive
care unit does not improve outcomes.

to receive the originally assigned trial enteral nutrition if they
remained in the ICU following a crossover period.

Randomization
A computer-generated site randomization schedule was completed by an investigator responsible for data management but
independent of statistical analysis (M.E.F.). Two groups of 4
sites commenced 3 months apart. The randomization was balanced with 2 groups of 4 clusters each. To facilitate logistics
and adequate supply of trial enteral nutrition, concealment was
revealed 1 month prior to trial commencement, with commencement staggered into 2 strata, and randomization conducted as 2 strata of blocks of 4.

Interventions
Participants received Nutrison Protein Intense (100 g protein/L)
during the augmented protein assignment and Nutrison Protein Plus (63 g protein/L) during the usual protein assignment. Both formulae were isocaloric with complete nutrition
information in (eMethods in Supplement 3).

Trial Procedures
Following the treating clinician’s decision to initiate enteral
nutrition, eligible participants commenced the trial formula
to which the ICU was randomized. All aspects of nutrition
management were according to unit practice. The goal rate
for enteral nutrition was set by the treating clinician in-line
with usual practice; however, education was provided on
prescribing nutrition to ideal body weight for overweight and
obesity (eMethods in Supplement 3). Sites were not
instructed to change goal rates according to serum phosphate
concentrations.
The trial formula was delivered while clinically indicated
up to 90 days or until the patient was discharged from ICU or
died, whichever occurred first. Duration of enteral nutrition
was recorded in hours (eMethods in Supplement 3). If there
was a clinical need for a nontrial enteral nutrition, the trial formula was ceased and nontrial enteral nutrition commenced
for that patient. This was recorded as a protocol deviation. If
nontrial enteral nutrition was no longer clinically required, the
assigned trial formula was recommenced. Patients readmitted to the ICU within the index hospitalization, readmitted to
the ICU within 90 days of trial formula commencement, and
who required enteral nutrition were recommenced on the trial
formula they were originally assigned. Intermittent audits to

JAMA July 22/29, 2025 Volume 334, Number 4 (Reprinted)

jama.com

© 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.

Downloaded from jamanetwork.com by University of Arizona Health Sciences Library user on 07/23/2026

