RATE-AF Trial Protocol                                                         Version 3.0, 25th July 2019


        9.5.3   Outcome Appraisal
        Each QoL tool will be scored according to their published requirements (www.euroqol.org; www.sf-
        36.org; www.afeqt.org), using total and sub-category scores where appropriate.

        To avoid dilution of effect over time, the primary analysis will be at six months (adjusting for baseline
        QOL and stratification variables). We have predefined a focus on physical well-being, which we
        hypothesize are where the greatest treatment effects will be observed, but will explore all aspects
        of QoL. Exploratory analysis of medication effects over the 12-month period will also be analysed
        and remain clinically important, as little data currently exists on the longer-term profile of QoL in
        AF.

        Qualitative research outcomes will focus on the clinical responsiveness of the QoL instruments.
        The findings of the COSMIN systematic report will determine these outcomes and their relevant
        appraisal.

        The RATE-AF trial will allow us to gain an initial understanding and framework of the patient
        experience of AF. We aim to begin the process of determining appropriate and responsive PROMs
        for AF patients and the optimum methods for delivery into a subsequent large-scale clinical trial.


        9.6 Transthoracic Echocardiography

        Echocardiography will be performed at Visits 1 and 3 and focus on systolic left-ventricular (LV)
        function, diastolic function and left-atrial assessment. Images will be obtained by an accredited
        echocardiographer. All trial echocardiograms will be labelled with the Trial Number and
        pseudoanonymised patient data, with specific instruction that the echocardiographer will remain
        blinded to the treatment assignment. All images will be archived to the core echocardiographic
        laboratory, with a copy retained in the site file.


        9.6.1   Reproducibility and Validity of Measurements
        Inter-observer and intra-observer variability in measurement will be assessed by comparing results
        of the stated methods discussed below across the cardiac cycle. To evaluate the minimum number
        of repeat measurements required that maintains clinical utility, reproducibility of single
        measurements will be compared to averages of 3/5/10 beats. This will also include the reliability
        of using an ‘index beat’ with a cycle length equivalent to a heart rate of 70-80 beats per minute, or
        with similar preceding and pre-preceding RR intervals.



        9.6.2       Systolic LV Function
        Systolic LV function will be determined by the following methods:

            x   Two-dimensional biplane Simpson’s method utilising the simultaneous multi-planar
                approach to obtain LVEF in a single heartbeat (four and two-chamber views). In each view,
                LV end-diastolic and end-systolic volumes (LVEDV, LVESV) are computed, with LVEF

EudraCT No.: 2015-005043-13                                                                      Page 39 of 69
