RATE-AF Trial Protocol                                                          Version 3.0, 25th July 2019


        14        Oversight Committees

        14.1 Trial Management Group

        The Trial Management Group (TMG) will comprise the CI, other lead investigators (clinical and non-
        clinical) and members of the BCTU. The TMG will be responsible for the day-to-day running and
        management of RATE-AF. The TMG will convene at regular intervals.


        14.2 Trial Oversight Committee

        A joint oversight committee comprising a Trial Steering Committee (TSC) and Data Monitoring
        Committee (DMC) will be engaged for this trial.

        The role of the TSC is to provide the overall supervision of the trial. The TSC will monitor trial
        progress and conduct and advice on scientific credibility. The TSC will consider and act, as
        appropriate, upon the recommendations of the Data Monitoring Committee. Further details of the
        remit and role of the TSC are available in the TSC Charter.

        An independent DMC will be established to oversee the safety of participants in the trial. The DMC
        will meet prior to the trial opening to enrolment, and then meet at least annually, or as per a
        timetable agreed by the DMC prior to trial commencement. Data analyses will be supplied in
        confidence to the DMC, which will be asked to give advice on whether the accumulated data from
        the trial, together with the results from other relevant research, justifies the continuing recruitment
        of further participants. The DMC will operate in accordance with the trial specific charter.


        14.3 Protocol amendments

        Where important protocol modifications are required as a result of oversight (for example, changes
        to eligibility criteria, outcomes or analyses), this information will be communicated to relevant
        parties, such as investigators, the REC, trial registries and regulators.



        15        Finance

        The RATE-AF Trial is funded through a Career Development Fellowship awarded to the Chief
        Investigator by the National Institute for Health Research (NIHR).



        16        Confidentiality and Data Protection

        Personal data recorded on all documents will be regarded as strictly confidential and will be handled
        and stored in accordance with the latest Data Protection legislation.

        Participants will be identified using their unique trial identification number, date of birth and hospital
        number on the CRFs. and correspondence between the Trials Office and the participating site.
EudraCT No.: 2015-005043-13                                                                       Page 58 of 69
