RATE-AF Trial Protocol                                                      Version 3.0, 25th July 2019


        sign a contact details form to confirm that they are happy to be contacted by a member of the
        Research Team to arrange an appointment.

        Prior to patients undertaking any trial-related procedures, informed consent will be obtained.

        Details of all patients approached about the trial should be recorded on the RATE-AF Screening &
        Enrolment Log. This Log should be maintained within the Investigator Site File.


        6.1 Randomisation Procedures

        After all eligibility criteria have been confirmed and informed consent has been received, the
        participants can be randomised into the RATE-AF trial.

        Participants will be randomised in a 1:1 ratio to either Digoxin 62.5 – 250 μg od or Bisoprolol
        1.25 – 15 mg od. The time between randomisation and commencement of trial therapy should be
        minimised (ideally <24 hours). Randomisation will be provided by a computer generated
        programme at the Birmingham Clinical Trials Unit (BCTU), using a minimisation algorithm to ensure
        balance between the arms with regard to important clinical variables, stratifying for baseline EHRA
        (class 1/2a and 2b/3/4) and gender.

        Telephone and Online Randomisation
        Participants can be randomised into the trial via a secure 24 hour internet based randomisation
        service (https://www.trials.bham.ac.uk/RATEAF) or by a telephone call to the BCTU (telephone
        number 0800 953 0274). Telephone randomisations are available Monday-Friday, 09:00-17:00.
        For the secure internet randomisation, each site and each randomiser will be provided with a unique
        log-in username and password in order to access the online system. Online randomisation is
        available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, apart from short periods of scheduled maintenance and
        occasional network problems.

        Randomisation Forms will be provided to investigators and should be completed and used to collate
        the necessary information prior to randomisation. Once all eligibility criteria have been provided
        and confirmed, a Trial Number and treatment allocation be given and relevant parties notified,
        including the participant’s GP.

        Back-up Randomisation
        If the internet based randomisation service is unavailable for an extended period of time, a back-
        up paper randomisation will also be available at the BCTU. The randomisation list will be produced
        using a random length block design. In this instance, investigators should ring the BCTU
        randomisation service (telephone number 0800 953 0274).




EudraCT No.: 2015-005043-13                                                                   Page 26 of 69
