RATE-AF Trial Protocol                                                           Version 3.0, 25th July 2019


        neonatal hypoglycaemia, and bradycardia (although as above, these agents are frequently used in
        pregnancy). There is a theoretical risk of toxicity in breast feeding, although the amount present in
        milk is likely too small to affect infants. Abrupt withdrawal should be avoided, especially in cases
        of ischaemic heart disease. Up-titration should be more cautious in patients with renal or hepatic
        impairment.

        Contraindications for bisoprolol therapy include cardiogenic shock, overt cardiac failure, second or
        third degree heart block, marked sinus bradycardia and severe peripheral arterial disease.

        Bisoprolol has been associated with a wide variety of adverse effects although data from RCTs
        suggest similar discontinuation rates compare to placebo.5, 73 The most common adverse
        symptoms are lethargy, headache, peripheral oedema, upper respiratory tract symptoms,
        gastrointestinal upset and dizziness. In cases of overdose, bradycardia, hypotension, congestive
        heart failure, bronchospasm and hypoglycaemia may be expected, with treatment directed to
        supportive methods and atropine, fluids, glucagon or diuretics as required.

        Pharmacokinetic interactions with beta-blockers have not shown to be clinically significant. Drugs
        that reduce absorption include aluminium salts and cholestyramine, whilst metabolism can be
        increased by barbiturates and rifampicin and decreased with cimetidine, erythromycin,
        fluvoxamine, and hydralazine.


        7.5 Accountability Procedures and Labelling

        Through the risk-adapted approach, a full risk assessment of the RATE-AF trial has been
        conducted including the drug accountability requirements. The IMPs will be used within their
        authorisations, prescribed on an NHS prescription and dispensed by pharmacy from standard
        stock. The risk assessment has determined that a normal dispensing label is appropriate and an
        additional clinical trial label is not necessary (as covered by Regulation 46 (2) of SI 2004/1031).
        Drug accountability will be according to standard practice for NHS prescriptions. Details of how
        compliance will be assessed can be found in Section 7.7.


        7.6 Treatment Modification

        Patients that withdraw from medication for any reason will do so under strict clinical supervision.

        The trial is designed to assess the impact of initial impact of rate control therapy; it is expected
        that treatments will modify during the trial period (in particular, the addition of therapy to attain heart
        rate targets). Patients will not be withdrawn from the trial if they commence therapy from the other
        arm of the trial due to any absolute or relative clinical indications (for example, patients in the
        digoxin arm starting beta-blockers due to incident myocardial infarction, or heart failure with
        reduced LVEF).




EudraCT No.: 2015-005043-13                                                                        Page 30 of 69
