RATE-AF Trial Protocol

Version 3.0, 25th July 2019

calculated as (LVEDV – LVESV) / LVEDV. Two-dimensional echocardiography has
excellent spatial resolution but is limited by potential foreshortening of the ventricular apex
and drop-out of the endocardial border.
x

Standard Simpson’s biplane method with four and two-chamber volumes obtained from
separate heartbeats. This is the conventional method in current clinical use but is limited
by varying RR intervals in AF.

x

Fractional shortening on M-mode along the minor-axis of the left-ventricle (parasternal longaxis), calculated by the formula: (LV internal dimension in diastole - LV internal dimension
in systole) / LV internal dimension in diastole. M-mode measurements are reproducible and
easy to perform with excellent temporal resolution, but are limited in cases of regional wall
motion abnormalities and in patients where the true minor-axis is difficult to visualise.

x

Both automated endocardial tracking and speckle-tracking analysis will be utilised (where
available) by the echocardiographic core laboratory. Multiple planes will be obtained (fourchamber, two-chamber and short-axis mid-ventricle views). These methods have the
advantage of reducing operator time and are angle-independent, but rely on good
ultrasound windowing. Global longitudinal systolic strain using 2D speckle-tracking has
recently been proposed as an important marker for adverse cardiovascular outcomes in
AF.86

x

Three-dimensional full-volume analyses of LV function, with single-beat analysis where
feasible. This method has the advantage of not relying on geometric assumptions and
allows the acquisition of full volume data within a single heartbeat. It correlates well with
gold standard methods such as cardiac magnetic resonance imaging, but relies on
adequate ultrasound windowing.

x

Peak S-wave on tissue Doppler imaging (TDI) of the mitral valve annular sub-endocardium.
This method has good correlation with LVEF across a wide range of function and is
obtainable in patients with poor acoustic windows, but is limited in cases of regional wall
motion abnormality.

Where poor quality acoustic windows limit accurate assessment of LV function, use of an
intravenous contrast agent is recommended in participants without known allergy.

9.6.3

Diastolic LV Function

Diastolic LV function will be determined using the following methods (in all cases repeated over 35 cardiac cycles):
x

Mitral inflow pulse-wave Doppler peak E velocity and deceleration time (DT).

x

Mitral annular TDI to calculate septal E’, lateral E’ and the individual and averaged E/E’ ratios.

x

LV outflow tract pulse-wave Doppler to calculate isovolumic relaxation time (IVRT).

x

Pulmonary vein pulse-wave Doppler to calculate peak systolic (where present) and diastolic
velocities, ratio of peak velocities and DT of diastolic PV flow.

EudraCT No.: 2015-005043-13

Page 40 of 69

