RATE-AF Trial Protocol

Version 3.0, 25th July 2019

episodes and fragmentation) using heart rate and accelerometer sensors. The device is noninvasive, painless, and extremely low risk. They are similar in size and dimension to a watch,
manufactured primarily in rubber, and are marked as lifestyle devices, therefore not denoting
participation in a research study, reducing stigmatisation and eliminating the possibility of
identifying an individual as a research participant.

Smartphone and software:
Participants will be provided with a suitable Android platform smartphone, which functions as a
regular mobile phone and allows users to make calls to all UK landlines and mobiles, or access the
internet. Software on the phone will connect with the wearable device and also passively collect
information about the environment and phone usage, using sensors which are built into all modern
smartphones. This includes the amount of noise and light in surroundings, Bluetooth interactions,
local weather conditions, location, length and duration of texts and phone calls, keystrokes, and
battery life. GPS location will be anonymised in a way that does not reveal actual geographic
location. Similarly, we will not be able to see the content of text messages, or phone numbers that
have been contacted. Applications will be installed to record the pulse, AF symptoms and quality
of life, and provide an educational resource for patients.98

Data handling:
All of the information collected will be pseudo-anonymised and kept confidential. Data collected
via the wrist-worn wearable device and smartphone will be encrypted, uploaded to a secure server
and will not be identifiable by patient name. Data will be temporarily cached on the smartphone
until an appropriate Wi-Fi or mobile data connection is available, and will then be automatically
deleted from the phone memory. A contract between the University of Birmingham and The Hyve
who will assist with the hosting of the RADAR platform has been made. Data are securely stored
in the established RADAR platform (Remote Assessment of Disease and Relapse;
https://www.radar-cns.org/) . Data collected from the devices will then be processed at the
University of Birmingham. The pseudo-anonymised data acquired may be shared with members
of the BigData@Heart consortium in the UK and other countries of the European Union, after
agreement from the RATE-AF Trial Steering Committee.

Participant support:
Contact will be made with participants by the BigData@Heart team throughout the course of followup if there is a loss of data stream from a device. The participant will be contacted by telephone to
ensure compliance and correct use. In addition to a telephone call provided after an introductory
training session, participants will receive further call as needed to address any concerns or
questions, and brief follow-up phone-calls will then be offered as needed to maintain engagement
with participants and address any technical concerns.

Objectives and analysis:
EudraCT No.: 2015-005043-13

Page 44 of 69

