Version 3.0, 25th July 2019

RATE-AF Trial Protocol

Refer to Table 3 for definition of expectedness.
Table 3: Expectedness
Category

Definition

Expected

An adverse event that is classed in nature as serious and which is
consistent with the information about the IMP listed in the Investigator
Brochure (or section 4.8 of the relevant SmPC if Licensed IMP) or clearly
defined in this protocol

Unexpected

An adverse event that is classed in nature as serious and which is not
consistent with the information about the IMP listed in the Investigator
Brochure (or SmPC if Licensed IMP)

Adverse events will be recorded with clinical symptoms and accompanied with a simple, brief
description of the event, including dates as appropriate.
The assessment of relationship of adverse events to the administration of IMP is a clinical decision
based on all available information at the time. The following categories as outlined in Table 4 will
be used to define the causality of the adverse event.

Table 4: Categorisation of Causality

Category

Definition

Definitely

There is clear evidence to suggest a causal relationship, and

Relatedness

other possible contributing factors can be ruled out
Probably

There is evidence to suggest a causal relationship, and the
influence of other factors is unlikely

Possibly

There is some evidence to suggest a causal relationship (e.g. the

Related

event occurred within a reasonable time after administration of
the trial medication). However, the influence of other factors may
have contributed to the event (e.g. the patient’s clinical condition,
other concomitant events)
Unlikely

There is little evidence to suggest there is a causal relationship
(e.g. the event did not occur within a reasonable time after
administration of the trial medication). There is another

Not related

reasonable explanation for the event (e.g. the patient’s clinical
condition, other concomitant treatments)
Not related

EudraCT No.: 2015-005043-13

There is no evidence of any causal relationship

Page 48 of 69

