RATE-AF Trial Protocol

x

Version 3.0, 25th July 2019

Colour M-mode Doppler assessment of mitral flow propagation velocity (Vp) and ratio of E/Vp.

Overall diastolic function will be categorised according to the British Society of Echocardiography
guidelines into normal function or mild/moderate/severe dysfunction based on a combination of the
above variables. Individual parameters will also be categorised using cut-points identified from
published studies.87

9.6.4

Left Atrial Size and Function

Left atrial (LA) size will be measured in the anteroposterior (parasternal long-axis), transverse and
longitudinal dimensions (apical 4-chamber). LA volumes will be calculated using the biplane arealength method: (0.85 x 4-chamber LA area x 2-chamber LA area) / LA length. The length is
measured from the middle of the plane of the mitral annulus to the superior aspect of the LA
(shortest of 4- and 2-chamber measurements). LA volumes will be indexed for body surface area.
Where suitable datasets are obtained, 3D LA volumetric analysis and assessment of LA function
and strain will also be performed.

9.6.5

Additional Echocardiography Parameters

The following parameters will be obtained in all participants:
x

Tricuspid annular plane systolic excursion (TAPSE) for estimation of right ventricular
function using pulse-wave Doppler.

x

Where applicable, mitral regurgitation dP/dt.

9.7 Laboratory Evaluations
The use of biomarkers than can affect treatment decisions in AF is at an early stage of
development.88 The RATE-AF trial will allow us to collect and store blood samples on patients at
baseline and follow-up, providing a unique biobank of AF patients receiving rate-control. In
collaboration with the Human Biomaterials Resource Centre (HBRC) at the University of
Birmingham, we will also isolate DNA for future work on predictors of response, including known
polymorphisms of rate-responsiveness.89
Laboratories at each clinical site will process the standard laboratory investigations required as part
of standard clinical care (see Section 9.1). Trial laboratory evaluations will be performed at the
core laboratory and processed according to the guidelines in Sections 9.7.1, 9.7.2 and 9.7.3.

9.7.1

Laboratory Assays

NT-pro B-type natriuretic peptide will be analysed using a Sandwich immunoassay using
monoclonal ruthenium labelled antibody and Roche Cobas 8000 e602. The total coefficient of
EudraCT No.: 2015-005043-13

Page 41 of 69

