RATE-AF Trial Protocol

Version 3.0, 25th July 2019

and directed interviews guided by the PROMs and qualitative research centres at the University of
Birmingham.77
Instruments for assessment will be selected on the basis of overall validity, preferably in this patient
population but including other groups where data are limited. Patient focus groups will allow
exploration of patient perspectives on appropriate instruments that adequately reflect the
experience of living with AF.78 They will also allow comparison of QoL questionnaires that
adequately summarise patient-prioritised components of their health and well-being. Additional
focus groups and individual interviews will occur at interim and final follow-up during the trial. These
aim to understand the patient experience of trial participation and processes, including the ease of
completion of QoL questionnaires, relevance, reasons for non-completion and other feasibility
issues that emerge during the trial e.g. non-compliance and recruitment, with reference to core
outcome sets for this population.79 A patient and public involvement (PPI) panel will contribute to
all stages in the focus group process.80
This protocol was developed in accordance with the Standard Protocol Items for Randomized Trials
[SPIRIT] statement81, and the latest PROM-specific guidance from the International Society for
Quality of Life Research (ISOQOL) Best Practice taskforce.77, 82, 83

9.5.2

Data Collection for PROMs

PROMs will be assessed at all main visits (Baseline, 2 and 3) and at the participants final uptitration visit (if applicable). The QoL tools used will be EQ-5D-5L, SF-36 and AFEQT. To avoid
introducing co-intervention bias, all QoL data will be kept confidential and will not be used to inform
clinical care.84 Patients will be advised of this in the patient information sheet. PROMs will be
collected at the start of each visit, before other trial procedures. In cases where the visit coincides
with a clinician review, questionnaires should be completed in advance. The feasibility of using an
online data collection tool will be explored, administered by trained research nurses and according
to good-practice guidelines.85 We will use this trial to perform an initial small-group assessment of
electronic PROMs-equivalence to inform a future clinical event trial.
Qualitative research will be performed using a focus group of 10 volunteer patients enrolled at the
start of the trial (5 in each randomised group). The focus group will meet after up-titration and then
at 6 and 12 months. Detailed methods will be established before the first meeting, in collaboration
with the University of Birmingham Qualitative Research Group.
All staff will receive training in QoL collection, with specific guidance on reducing introduced bias,
minimising missing data and coaching participants to use the QoL software. Levels of missing
PROMs data will be monitored. The site personnel responsible for collection of patient reported
outcomes will be the Research Nurse under the supervision of the Principal Investigator.

EudraCT No.: 2015-005043-13

Page 38 of 69

