intervention period, as this would reveal the allocation group. All authors must agree on both versions before
unblinding.

Sample size calculation
In TRAUMOX119, the pilot study for TRAUMOX2, the primary composite outcome occurred in 20% in the
restrictive group and 33% in the liberal group. In larger studies, mortality from major trauma has been
estimated to be 6-12%20, and the incidence of ventilator associated pneumonia post trauma was almost 30%
in one study.14 In TRAUMOX2, we estimate that with 710 trial participants in each trial arm, including a
drop-out rate of 3.5%, yielding a total of 1420 patients, we will be able to detect a 33% relative risk
reduction in the incidence of the composite primary outcome (30-day mortality and/or major respiratory
complications) with a restrictive supplemental oxygen strategy with 80% power at the 5% significance level
if the incidence of our primary outcome is 15% in the liberal group and 10% in the restrictive group. This
corresponds to an absolute between-group difference of 5 percentage points.

Framework
The primary analysis will be conducted as a superiority trial to test whether the restrictive group is superior
to the liberal group.

Statistical interim analysis and stopping guidance
An independent data monitoring- and safety committee (DMSC) has been set up. The committee includes a
statistician. The committee met when information on 30-day mortality had been collected in 355 patients
(approximately 25% of the envisioned sample size) and recommended the trial to continue. The DMSC will
meet again when 30-day mortality has been collected in 710 patients (approximately 50% of the sample size
estimation). In addition, at the second interim analysis, the DMSC will also consider available data on major
respiratory complications. Prior to the meetings, the DMSC statistician performs an interim analysis with
data blinded towards the allocation. There are no strict stopping criteria, but in the DMSC charter, it is
suggested that a recommendation should be based on only a considerable difference, such as a relative risk
where the lower limit of the 95% confidence interval is >2 (regardless of which group is nominator). This
applies to both the first and second interim analysis. There will be no premature ending of the trial for futility
before the preplanned inclusion of 1420 patients. In addition, the sponsor has the responsibility to report the
overall number of annual SAEs to the committee. The DMSC will have an advisory role to the steering
committee and therefore the final decision regarding potential modifications or termination will rest with the
steering committee. Detailed information on the DMSC is available on the study website
(www.traumox2.org).

Timing of outcome assessments and final analysis
The registered variables at baseline, during intervention and during admission (in-hospital) are presented in
Tables 1, 2 and 4. In addition to the variables collected during the intervention (Table 2), a figure displaying
the median hourly SpO2 with interquartile range for both groups will be made. The primary composite
outcome and key secondary outcomes are presented in Table 3. The exploratory secondary outcomes at day
30 are available in Table 4. A long-term follow-up is assessed at six- and 12 months on morbidity and
quality-of-life outside the scope of the primary analysis. A 12-month mortality will also be assessed. The
primary analysis can begin 30 days after the last patient has been included.




                                                                                                               85
STATISTICAL PRINCIPALS
Confidence intervals and P values
We will use a significance level of 5% and thus 95% confidence intervals (CI) on our estimates. Significance
tests will be two sided. The exploratory secondary outcomes will be adjusted for multiple testing by having
their P-values, and thus 95% CIs, assessed using a significance level lower than 5% according to the
Benjamini-Hochberg method.21 Hence, for the P-values of the exploratory secondary outcomes it will be
indicated whether they are significant while controlling the false discovery rate at 5%.

Adherence and protocol deviations
For all TRAUMOX2 trial participants, it is possible to deviate from the protocol if clinically justified by the
treating physician. These reasons should always be documented in REDCap.

A major protocol violation will be defined as:

• Restrictive O2 group, during the intervention period

For non-intubated trial participants: Supplemental oxygen ≥3 L O2/min AND an SpO2 ≥98% recorded at two
consecutive hourly time points on the data collection sheet.
For intubated trial participants: FiO2 >0.4 AND an SpO2 ≥98% recorded at two consecutive hourly time
points on the data collection sheet.

• Liberal O2 group, during the intervention period

For non-intubated trial participants: Supplemental oxygen <3 L O2/min at two consecutive hourly time points
on the data collection sheet.
For intubated trial participants: FiO2 <0.4 at two consecutive hourly time points on the data collection sheet.

For the main paper, data on protocol deviations and major protocol violations will be presented in Table 2.

Analysis populations
We will conduct modified intention-to-treat analyses on all randomised patients.22 The modification is based
on the exclusion criterion stating that trauma patients are secondarily excluded after randomisation and
trauma centre diagnostics (e.g. secondary survey after CT scan), if the latter has resulted in expected
discharge within 24 hours (due to few or no injuries). If consent is withdrawn for a patient, no data after the
day will be collected. Please see Figure 1. Per-protocol analyses will also be carried out, but only for the
primary composite outcome and key secondary outcomes. The per-protocol population is the same as the
modified intention-to-treat population with exclusion of those having one or more major protocol violations.




                                                                                                              86
TRIAL POPULATION
Screening, eligibility and recruitment
Screening, eligibility, and recruitment is conducted as stated in the trial protocol.15 A CONSORT23 flow
diagram is presented in Figure 1.

Baseline patient characteristics
Baseline variables for all analysed patients are presented in Table 1. Data will be summarised with numbers
and percentages for categorical variables and medians with interquartile ranges (IQRs) for continuous
variables. According to the CONSORT 2010 statement23, differences in baseline variables between the
restrictive oxygen group and liberal oxygen group will not explored.

Withdrawal and follow-up
Since this is an acute medical study, patients are always included upon the discretion of an including
physician. Patient or next-of-kin consent is sought after inclusion in all cases. After inclusion, patients are at
any time allowed to refrain from giving consent or withdraw consent they have given previously. If consent
is withdrawn, patients are followed up until this time point. However, the participating centres’ individual
approach will always be according to national law.




                                                                                                                87
ANALYSIS
Outcome definitions

Primary outcome and key secondary outcomes
The primary outcome is a composite outcome consisting of 30-day mortality and/or major respiratory
complications (pneumonia and/or ARDS) within 30 days. The 30-day mortality is assessed using in-hospital
or national/local registries. Whenever this is not possible, for instance if the patient is a foreigner, 30-day
mortality will be sought by contacting the patient or relatives by phone or e-mail on day 30 after inclusion or
later. At least three attempts on three different days should be carried out. If no contact is obtained, and the
patient was discharged to home from either the TRAUMOX2 including hospital or a subsequent receiving
hospital, the patient is considered to be alive on day 30. However, if the patient was transferred to another
hospital without medical record access for TRAUMOX2 investigators, 30-day vital status is considered
unknown and 30-day mortality is then considered as missing data. The definition of major respiratory
complications, pneumonia and ARDS, is in accordance with the criteria described by the CDC24 and the
Berlin definition25, respectively. It is evaluated through the available medical record system via a blinded
assessment by at least two specialists in anaesthesia, intensive care medicine, emergency medicine or similar
appointed at each centre. If the patient is transferred to another hospital, and the medical record from that
hospital until day 30 is not available, the assessment will be based on the available medical record from the
TRAUMOX2 participating centre only. However, an attempt of obtaining the medical record of the receiving
facility will be carried out and will be included in the primary outcome assessment if possible.

The two key secondary outcomes are 30-day mortality and major respiratory complications (pneumonia
and/or ARDS) within 30 days, respectively.

The details of all primary and key secondary outcomes are presented in Table 3.

In-hospital registrations and exploratory secondary outcomes
Additional outcomes are presented in Table 4.

Analysis methods

Primary composite outcome
The primary composite outcome will be compared between the two groups using logistic regression and
reported as odds ratio (OR) with 95% CI, adjusted for the stratification variables. An additional analysis for
the primary composite outcome using logistic regression will be made with adjustment for the stratification
variables, age, sex, ISS, and the first available GCS score after trauma. Excess association within the
stratification is adjusted for through the method of generalized estimating equations (GEE) the including
base as a clustering variable. Potential differential dropout from the study – through late withdrawal of
consent or unreachable for follow-up – is adjusted for through weighting of the available data by the inverse
of the probability of being observed26; the latter are estimated in a logistic regression model on baseline
characteristics and the allocation. Adjustment of the variance matrix to reflect the weighting is included in
the GEE method. Evaluation of significance will be based on the P-value.




                                                                                                             88
Key secondary outcomes
The key secondary outcomes will be analysed similarly to the primary composite outcome and adjusted for
the same covariates.

Exploratory secondary outcomes
Exploratory secondary outcomes will be analysed similarly to the primary composite outcome and adjusted
for the same covariates while the type of regression is according to the type of the outcome (e.g., logistic
regression for binary outcomes and linear regression for continuous outcomes). Evaluation of significance
will be adjusted according to the Benjamini-Hochberg method.21

Subgroup analyses
The following subgroup analyses related to the primary outcome will be performed:
   x Initially intubated within one hour after trauma
   x Intensive Care Unit admission
   x Moderate or severe traumatic brain injury (Abbreviated Injury Score ≥3)
   x Known lung disease
   x Episode(s) of hypoxaemia during the intervention (SpO2 <90%)
   x Included pre-hospital vs. in-hospital
   x Injury Severity Score >15

Missing data
If patients withdraw their consent once they regain consciousness, data up until that day is collected and
stored. However, the participating centres’ individual approach will always be according to national law. If
data is available for time-dependent outcomes (e.g., outcomes that are specified to be assessed 7 or 30 days
after inclusion), the assessments will be done dependent on the timing of withdrawal of consent. In case a
time-dependent outcome occurs within the period of available data for patients who withdraw consent, the
outcome will be registered. If an outcome does not occur within the period of available data for a time-
dependent outcome, the outcome is registered as missing data. Missing outcome data, which primarily covers
the patients who withdraw consent, is adjusted for using the inverse probability weighting method described
above under primary composite outcome.

Additional analyses
A statistical analysis plan for the long-term follow-up at six- and 12 months will become available on the
study website (www.traumox2.org).

Harms

Adverse Events and Serious Adverse Events
We have chosen to register only atelectases assessed by a radiologist and irritability of airway mucosa only if
registered by the health care staff in the medical record as adverse events in accordance with established
practice in trials on critically ill patients who experience many events as part of the natural trajectory of the
primary disease process or expected as a result of the critical illness.27 For the main paper, the numbers and
frequencies will be presented as shown in the supplementary Table 1.




                                                                                                              89
Statistical software
SAS (version 9.4) will be used for all analyses.




                                                   90
Discussion
The trauma population is particularly exposed to high concentrations of oxygen5,7–9, although the supporting
evidence is extremely sparse.2,3 The TRAUMOX2 trial will add important scientific information to this area.
The aim of this statistical plan is to provide transparency of the statistics that will be used to evaluate the
data. The plan has been prepared according to current recommendations16 and presented before the last
patient has been randomised.

Randomisation is carried out with sealed envelopes stratified by intubation at inclusion and the including
centre or pre-hospital base. This simple solution was chosen to avoid randomisation challenges in the acute
setting where no internet connection may be available, for example on the road or in the air, and to make
randomisation quicker and more pragmatic. However, there is a risk, through reshuffling of the envelopes or
dispersion over multiple vehicles related to a prehospital base, that the generated allocation sequence is not
strictly followed. This would reduce the efficiency of the block-randomisation slightly as allocation may thus
be less balanced, but randomisation is not invalidated as any reshuffling is independent of the actual
allocation.

The rationale for choosing our primary composite outcome, 30-day mortality and/or development of major
respiratory complications (pneumonia and/or ARDS), falls into two categories. First, both outcomes are
patient-centred and important for the trauma patient; trauma is the leading cause of death globally for people
up till 49 years of age28 and the incidence of pneumonia is high amongst critically ill patients and lung
complications are associated with longer hospital stays and increased morbidity and mortality.29–31 Second, a
primary composite outcome can increase the statistical precision and thus the efficiency of the trial.32
Furthermore, the primary outcome is assessor-blinded to compensate for the open label intervention. Finally,
the numbers from the literature on mortality and pneumonia in trauma patients that were chosen for the
sample size calculation were based on the best available evidence including a pilot trial when the trial was
designed.

We have chosen logistic regression for our primary outcome because it is the natural choice of statistical
model in which to analyze binary outcomes. The effect estimates obtained are odds ratios that are not
dependent on the marginal distribution of the outcome and, as such, may be directly compared to odds ratio
effect estimates from similar studies but on patients with higher or lower risk. Also, we will assess the
significance of our exploratory secondary outcomes controlling for the false discovery rate at 5% with the
Benjamini-Hochberg method, which yields a lower Type I-error in our study.21

The primary challenge in the statistical analyses is the adjustment for possible differential attrition. Several
outcomes cannot, or only partly, be evaluated because of loss to follow-up, withdrawal of consent, or death.
For example, a person who dies three days after trauma has automatically a lower chance of developing
pneumonia and only a maximum of three days Intensive Care Unit stay. As the intervention is hypothesized
to have an effect on, among other things, mortality, this probable differential attrition is to be taken seriously.
We adjust for differential attrition by inverse probability weighting.26




                                                                                                                91
