evaluating embolization in the curative treatment of cSDH. To our knowledge, no randomized
trial has yet been conducted to evaluate this procedure.


2.4   Description of the population to be studied and justification for its choice

The most common factors favoring the occurence of cSDH are chronic alcohol abuse, advanced
age, cerebral atrophy, treatment with anticoagulants or antiplatelet medication (1–3). The
majority of patients will be relatively elderly. Many of these are vulnerable patients for whom
any new surgery, hospitalization or neurological event can have a major impact on their life
trajectory, leading to loss of autonomy, institutionalization, cascading complications or even
death.


We propose to include patients aged 18 or over at risk of recurrence, i.e. those who have
undergone surgery for a recurrence of cSDH or after a first cSDH surgery in the case of favoring
factors (chronic ethylism, hepatic cirrhosis, effective anticoagulation or antiplatelet treatment,
thrombocytopenia or cSDH surgery without drain placement). An intervention to reduce
postoperative recurrence in this population would have a major impact. Approximately one-
third of patients undergoing surgical management for cSDH have at least one of these
characteristics.


Patients operated by craniotomy will be excluded. Craniotomy is not the procedure of first
choice for cSDH surgery due to the higher morbidity associated with this more invasive surgical
procedure, although the risk of recurrence is lower compared with burr-hole evacuation
according to the meta-analysis by Almenawer et al. (9). Craniotomy with membranectomy in
the treatment of cSDH is therefore generally reserved for rare indications, such as refractory
organized cSDH as described by Matsumoto et al. (17).


We will also exclude patients who are dependent before the cSDH, with an estimated life
expectancy less than 6 months, with chronic renal failure contraindicating the injection of
iodinated contrast media (clearance of less than 30 ml/min or allergy to a contrast medium),
with an active pregnancy contraindicating exposure to x-rays, agitated (making it impossible to
perform the procedure under local anaesthesia or conscious sedation), refusing inclusion or for
whom follow-up is impossible.




                                                                                                       13/63

                                 EMPROTECT protocol version 1.1 of 06/01/2020
               This document is the property of DRCI / APHP. Any reproduction is strictly forbidden.
