2.5   Description of the embolization procedure

Patients randomized to the experimental group will have embolization under local anesthesia
or conscious sedation, after CT angiography of the supra-aortic trunks and circle of Willis,
within 7 days of surgical evacuation of the cSDH. The CT angiography will enable us to verify
the feasibility of arterial catheterization and embolization. If this is not the case, embolization
will not be performed. In particular, the CT angiography will be used to check for the presence
of a floating thrombus in the aortic arch, which contraindicates endovascular navigation in the
arch, and the anatomy of the supra-aortic trunks, in order to plan the radial or femoral approach
and catheterization. In addition, the absence of an anatomical variant contraindicating the
procedure will be verified: birth of the MMA from the ophthalmic artery, as evidenced by
agenesis of the foramen spinosum and the absence of an MMA arising from the internal
maxillary artery.


Embolization will be performed via a femoral or radial access. The middle meningeal artery
will be catheterized under radiological control using a Progreat microcatheter, then embolized
with calibrated particles to devascularize the downstream territory until truncal occlusion is
achieved. This occlusion of an artery independent of cerebral vascularization has already been
proposed in several indications, such as pre-operative embolization of hyper-vascular
meningiomas, and has no known negative consequences in the absence of macroscopic
anastomoses with cerebral arteries or the ophthalmic artery (24). This will be verified during
the pre-intervention CT angiography. Indeed, the CT angiography allows us to search for the
birth of the ophthalmic artery from the middle meningeal artery, and conversely, the birth of
the middle meningeal artery from the ophthalmic artery.


If an anastomosis between the MMA and the ophthalmic artery is detected during
catheterization and selective angiography of the MMA, embolization can be performed either
by injecting the particles beyond the anastomosis with a sufficient safety margin, or after
occlusion of the anastomosis by coiling, enabling protection of the ophthalmic artery before
injection of the particles. The two main branches of the MMA (anterior-frontal and posterior-
parietal or petrosquamous) can be embolized together via the common trunk of the MMA, or
selectively sequentially to protect the orbital branches (from the anterior branch) or a prominent
petrous branch.




                                                                                                       14/63

                                 EMPROTECT protocol version 1.1 of 06/01/2020
               This document is the property of DRCI / APHP. Any reproduction is strictly forbidden.
