                                           reduce the mortality and sequelae associated with these recurrences.
                                           It would also reduce the rate of re-intervention and length of hospital
                                           stay. The procedure would also allow the resumption of anti-
                                           coagulants and antiplatelet agents for primary or secondary
                                           prevention in cases of formal indication.
Risks added by research                    This minimally invasive procedure would expose the patient to low
                                           risk (risk associated with endovascular navigation, exposure to X-rays
                                           and injection of a contrast medium). The procedure would require
                                           strict bed rest for 12 to 24 hours, and should not prolong
                                           hospitalization.
Practical considerations                   In each participating center, there will be a pair of investigators
                                           consisting of an interventional neuroradiologist (INR) and a
                                           neurosurgeon. After evacuation of the cSDH by burr-hole or trephine,
                                           eligible patients will be identified by the neurosurgeon, who will
                                           contact the corresponding INR. The INR will provide clear information
                                           to the patient and/or family concerning the risk of recurrence of the
                                           cSDH, the possibility of performing a MMA embolization, the
                                           modalities and risks of this procedure, and the possibility of
                                           participating in the EMPROTECT trial. After signing an informed
                                           consent form (by the patient or a family member/trusted support
                                           person), eligible patients will be randomized 1:1 between
                                           embolization (experimental group) and usual care (control group).
                                           Randomization will be carried out in random permuted blocks,
                                           stratified by center, anticoagulant/antiplatelet treatment and
                                           whether the cSDH is unilateral or bilateral. It will be centralized via
                                           the e-crf. Patients randomized to the experimental group will
                                           undergo embolization under local anesthesia or conscious sedation,
                                           after CT angiography, within 7 days of surgical evacuation of the
                                           cSDH with strict bed rest for 12 to 24 hours afterwards.
                                           Patients in the control group will receive usual care.
                                           Patients will be reassessed at 1 and 6 months, and data will be
                                           collected via the e-crf.
                                           Blind validation of recurrences will be ensured by an independent
                                           adjudication committee.
Number of subjects selected                342
Number of centers planned                  12 centers
Duration of research                       Specify :
                                                 - inclusion period: 24 months
                                                 - duration of participation (treatment + follow-up): 6 months
                                                 - total duration: 30 months
Number of planned inclusions per            1.2 on average
center per month
Statistical analysis                       To demonstrate a reduction in the recurrence rate from 15% (control
                                           group) to 5% (embolized group) with 80% power, and ensuring an
                                           overall bilateral alpha risk of 5%, by taking into account 2 sequential
                                           tests planned according to the Lan and Demets method with an
                                           O'Brien & Fleming-type alpha risk expenditure function (interim
                                           analysis after inclusion and end of follow-up of 129 patients
                                           (information fraction of 37.5%) at the nominal threshold alpha=0.001


                                                                                                            9/63

                                  EMPROTECT protocol version 1.1 of 06/01/2020
                This document is the property of DRCI / APHP. Any reproduction is strictly forbidden.
