- Or, the need for repeated surgery for a homolateral cSDH recurrence
- Or, the need for a new hospital admission in relation to a homolateral SDH recurrence


For patients operated for bilateral cSDH, the primary endpoint is considered to have been met
for any recurrence, whether unilateral or bilateral.


The primary endpoint will be assessed at a 6-month consultation with an interventional
neuroradiologist following a follow-up brain scan. Recurrences occurring during the first month
will be collected at the 1-month consultation. If an event occurs during follow-up, all
hospitalization, consultation or imaging reports will be collected.


An independent, blinded adjudication committee will evaluate any recurrences on the basis of
anonymized medical data submitted to the committee (imaging, consultation, surgery and
hospitalization reports).


4.1.2    Secondary endpoints


1/ Proportion of dependent patients (modified Rankin score greater than or equal to 4) at 1 and
6 months
2/ Mortality rates at 1 month and 6 months
3/ Cumulative duration of hospitalization at 6 months, related to the initial cSDH, a recurrence
or its direct or indirect consequences, including day hospitalization. Hospitalizations strictly
independent of the cSDH or its consequences will not be counted.
4/ Rate of neurosurgical re-intervention for recurrence of homolateral cSDH during the study
period. For patients operated on for bilateral cSDH, this secondary endpoint is considered met
for any recurrence leading to surgery, whether unilateral or bilateral.
5/ Complication rates :


Major complications :
- Major complications at the puncture site (retroperitoneal hematoma or arterial
pseudoaneurysm requiring surgical treatment)
- Degradation of renal function with a persistent drop in creatinine clearance of more than 10
points
- Neurological accident with permanent sequelae


                                                                                                       17/63

                                 EMPROTECT protocol version 1.1 of 06/01/2020
               This document is the property of DRCI / APHP. Any reproduction is strictly forbidden.
