7.2.3    Summary of training and experience required to use the device

Any trained interventional neuroradiologist is able to perform a middle meningeal artery
embolization procedure with calibrated particles without specific training. No additional
technical training is required before performing this procedure, since all steps are routinely
performed in other indications: 1) Femoral or radial arterial puncture 2) Catheterization of the
external carotid artery 3) Microcatheterization of the middle meningeal artery 4) Calibrated
particle embolization.


7.3     Comparator group description

Usual care including :
- Nursing care of the neurosurgical operating site
- Nursing care
- Symptomatic treatments: analgesics, for example
- Corticosteroid therapy if deemed necessary by the neurosurgical team
- Systematic clinical monitoring and imaging if necessary
- Rehabilitation if necessary


7.4     Description of embolization particles

EMBOSPHERE particles are non-absorbable, calibrated, biocompatible, hydrophilic particles
impregnated with porcine gelatin. They are a derivative of acrylic polymer and porcine gelatin
suspended in sodium chloride. The particles are packaged in syringes and vials.


7.5     Authorized and prohibited treatments (medicinal, non-medicinal, surgical), including
        rescue treatments

Heparin anticoagulation during the embolization procedure will be administered at the
discretion of the interventional neuroradiologist. The procedure can be performed without
heparin therapy.


For patients included because of a formal indication for resumption of effective anticoagulation
or antiplatelet therapy, the time frame for resumption of treatment will be discussed between
the referring neurosurgeon, interventional neuroradiologist, intensive care specialist, attending
physician or drug prescriber. No time limit will be imposed by the study.


                                                                                                         30/63

                                   EMPROTECT protocol version 1.1 of 06/01/2020
                 This document is the property of DRCI / APHP. Any reproduction is strictly forbidden.
