Evaluating processes of care & the outcomes of children in hospital (EPOCH): a cluster randomized trial of
the Bedside Paediatric Early Warning System.
PI: Christopher Parshuram Research Protocol

Evaluating processes of care & the outcomes of children in hospital (EPOCH): a cluster
randomized trial of the Bedside Paediatric Early Warning System
Protocol Summary
Background: The ideal outcome of hospitalization is survival with preserved neurologic function. Late
detection of clinical deterioration in hospitalized children results in near and actual cardiopulmonary arrest
and necessitates urgent ICU admission. We developed a documentation-based system of care to identify
children at risk to the healthcare team to prevent these crises. We called it the Bedside Paediatric Early
Warning System (Bedside-PEWS). While promising, the effect on important clinical outcomes is unknown.
Work to date: The following are the prerequisite achievements for this trial. [1] Single-centre validation of
the Bedside-PEWS score (completed). This expert-derived, statistically developed, clinically validated 7-item
severity of illness score is superior to the retrospective opinion of nurses and identified 82% of children with
evolving critical illness with at least 1 hours notice (AUCROC 0.91). [2] Multi-centre validation (manuscript
under review). This evaluation (2074 patients, 4 hospitals) confirms good performance of the Bedside-PEWS score
in each hospital, in children of all ages, and in different disease populations (AUCROC 0.87). [3]
Development of score-matched care recommendations to ensure appropriate matching of the care provided
with that indicated by the child’s severity of illness (completed). [4] Development of the Bedside-PEWS
documentation record (completed). Score calculation is reliable (ICC 0.92), and nurses say it is both useful and
easy to use. [5] Development of Education programs (completed). The Frontline Staff Education program and
the Bedside-PEWS Instructor course support clinical implementation. [6] Pilot clinical evaluation (completed).
A single site study found reduced late detection of critical illness, fewer ‘stat calls’, improved interdisciplinary
communication and established safety and acceptability (Accepted J. Pediatrics & Child Health).
Objectives: To evaluate the impact of Bedside-PEWS on early identification of children at risk for near and
actual cardiopulmonary arrest, hospital mortality, processes of care and PICU resource utilization.
Hypothesis: That the Bedside-PEWS reduces late detection of critical illness, reduces mortality and
improves processes of care and does not increase healthcare resource utilization.
Study Design: A multi-centre cluster randomized trial will be performed in 22 hospitals that care for >200
inpatients (<18 years and >37 weeks gestational age) each year and have a PICU. Balanced randomization at
hospital level will achieved by 1:1 allocation in hospitals >200 and <200 beds.
Intervention: Bedside-PEWS. The documentation record for children cared for in hospital wards (not OR,
not ICU) will become the Bedside-PEWS documentation record. This has score calculation embedded into
vital sign documentation, and specific care recommendations. Control hospitals will continue standard care.
Primary Outcome: All cause hospital mortality. Secondary Outcomes: Significant Clinical Deterioration
Events, this composite outcome describes the treatment provided before transfer and immediately after
urgent PICU admission, or death before PICU admission. It is modified from the ‘MERIT’ cluster RCT of
medical emergency teams in adult hospitals. Eight other clinical outcomes will be evaluated: [1] resuscitation
treatments provided before PICU admission; [2] Potentially Preventable Cardiac Arrest. [3] Unplanned
hospital re-admission. In patients urgently admitted to PICU [4] severity of illness at PICU admission, [5]
organ dysfunction, [6] ICU-mortality, [7] mechanical ventilation and [8] unplanned PICU readmission within
48 hours of PICU discharge. The 5 process of care outcomes are: stat calls, resuscitation calls, ICU or METCCRT consultations, frequency of documentation, and staff perceptions. Resource utilization outcomes will
be ICU technology use and length of stay (ICU, Hospital). Outcomes will be measured prospectively for 18
months (6 months baseline, 12 months intervention). A sample of 22 hospitals will permit evaluation of an absolute
risk reduction of 0.9 deaths/1000 hospital admissions equal to a relative risk reduction of 18% (k 0.15, power
0.8, alpha 0.05, baseline event rate 5.1/1000).
Analysis: Regression analyses with adjustment for baseline event rates will be used to evaluate the impact of
Bedside PEWS on mortality (logistic) and significant clinical deterioration events (Poisson).
Potential impact: If effective, integrating the Bedside-PEWS into routine care will improve survival, reduce
morbidity and improve hospital efficiency. If not effective then decision-makers can choose to allocate
resources to more effective mechanisms to improve the outcomes of hospital care.
Protocol 005 version date 23 February 2011

Page

1

Evaluating processes of care & the outcomes of children in hospital (EPOCH): a cluster randomized trial of
the Bedside Paediatric Early Warning System.
PI: Christopher Parshuram Research Protocol

OVERVIEW
The primary objective of hospital-based care is survival with preservation of neurologic function. Late
detection of clinical deterioration in hospitalized patients results in near or actual cardiopulmonary arrest and
necessitates urgent ICU admission. We have shown that despite apparently successful resuscitation, inhospital cardiac arrest is associated with significant mortality and acquired morbidity in survivors, and that
urgent ICU admission is associated with reduced quality of life and reduced neuro-cognitive functioning.1-5
Avoiding patient-care crises is a patient safety imperative that is contingent upon the timely identification,
referral and treatment of children whose conditions are clinically deteriorating.6, 7 Hospitals are currently
implementing medical emergency or rapid response teams (MET-RRT) with ‘calling’ criteria that
unfortunately fail to identify many of these children (Table 1).
The Bedside Paediatric Early Warning System (Bedside PEWS) is a scientifically developed documentationbased system of care designed to identify children who are clinically deteriorating while admitted to hospital
inpatient wards. It was developed and validated by the applicants.8 We have preliminary data demonstrating
that the Bedside PEWS addresses multiple factors (communication, hierarchy, secondary review) contributing
to delayed treatment of children at risk. In our pilot study of implementation at a single site we showed
statistically significant reductions in late transfers, ‘stat’ calls, decreased apprehension when nurses called
physicians to review patients, and improved communication. Our preliminary data show that the Bedside
PEWS score is superior to other methods being used to identify children at risk for impending
cardiopulmonary arrest. The current application is to support the culmination of this program of research: the
definitive trial of Bedside PEWS. A 2-year cluster-randomized trial will evaluate the impact of Bedside PEWS
on clinical outcomes, processes of care and resource utilization in 22 paediatric hospitals.

1. The Need for a Trial
1.1 What is the problem to be addressed? Preventable mortality and morbidity. Cardiopulmonary arrest is
the final common pathway of different disease processes, each culminating in loss of cardiac output.
Treatment of cardiopulmonary arrest represents the most extreme form of ‘rescue’ from failing -or failedtherapy and was used as one of the sentinel event markers in the 6 largest evaluations of patient safety.9-14
Cardiopulmonary arrest occurs in 0.1-20/1000 children in hospital wards.2, 15-17 Hospital survival is 30-50%,1, 18,
19
and survivors risk significant acquired morbidity.2, 4, 18, 20-23 Prevention of cardiopulmonary arrest in
hospitalized children is a patient safety imperative. As a manifestation of hospital-system failure, the late
identification of patients with evolving critical illness requires a system-level solution. Critical care experts
have suggested that the greatest improvements in care will be from system-level interventions rather than
single therapies.24 Candidate interventions will need to be effective 24/7 to address the inferior outcomes of
patients who are admitted to hospital,25 are transferred from ICU,26 or receive cardiopulmonary resuscitation27
after ‘regular-hours’. The feasibility of preventing near and actual cardiopulmonary arrest in hospitalized
children is suggested by the experience of many frontline practitioners,28, 29 and studies reporting that up to
80% of adult cardiopulmonary arrests are retrospectively identifiable.30-34 Our data shows that [1] nearly 5000
near and actual cardiopulmonary arrests (‘code-blue’ events) occur each year in children cared for in the
inpatient wards of Canadian and American paediatric hospitals.7 [2] Mortality following code-blue events is
28% versus 14% in children urgently admitted to ICU before a ‘code blue’ call is necessary.35 [3] More than
80% of children at risk could be prospectively identified with at least one hour’s notice using the Bedside
PEWS score,8, 15 [4] imperfect communication and hierarchical processes delay referral to available expertise
(revision submitted). Taken together these data suggest that, if successful, the Bedside PEWS could save the lives
of over 500 hospitalized children each year in Canada and the United States.
Cardiopulmonary arrest, near arrest, and organ dysfunction are intermediary morbidity events in
hospitalized children. They are precursors to mortality and persisting morbidity manifest as neuro-cognitive
injury and reduced quality of life (Figure 1).1, 3, 4, 23, 36-38
Modern critical care is founded on the principle that the timely provision of optimal treatments improves
mortality and morbidity.39 Operationalizing this principle requires timely consultation and engagement of local
Protocol 005 version date 23 February 2011

Page

2

Evaluating processes of care & the outcomes of children in hospital (EPOCH): a cluster randomized trial of
the Bedside Paediatric Early Warning System.
PI: Christopher Parshuram Research Protocol
expertise (frontline and supervising nurses, respiratory therapists and physicians), and timely transfer into a PICU.
Improvement in these care processes is likely to improve outcomes of hospitalized children. This provides a
rationale for studying early identification of critical illness in hospitalized children rather than
cardiopulmonary arrest in isolation.
Mortality in hospitalized children is the consequence of failed or ineffective treatment – either of the
primary disease or of the related cardiopulmonary arrest or a combination of both. Hospital mortality is a
useful measure of quality of care, is used extensively to benchmark the performance of PICUs,40-44 surgical
programs and hospitals,45, 46,47 and will be the primary outcome of this study.
Quality of care and adverse event prevention: the path to improvement. If near and actual
cardiopulmonary arrest in patients cared for in inpatient wards is to be effectively prevented then the
following must occur: [1] Identification of the patient with evolving critical illness. We have shown this is
possible with the Bedside PEWS Score.8 [2] Timely referral - well before impending cardiopulmonary arrest.
This is the purpose of the score-matched care recommendations of the Bedside PEWS. [3] An early
intervention mechanism to respond to referrals, including frontline staff, MET-RRT or other ICU
consultation and [4] appropriate areas to provide definitive care.7
Current ‘solutions’ to improve outcomes of hospitalized children with evolving critical illness
The majority of research and administrative efforts to date have focused on finding better treatments
(hypothermia, quality of CPR, neuro-critical care, transfusion strategies, extra-corporeal membrane
oxygenator ECMO therapy, others), improving physical capacity (more ICU beds, larger hospitals) and
facilitating better trained healthcare professionals (simulation, other forms of education) in order to identify
and treat patients with evolving and established critical illness.1, 3, 48-59 The single and multi-center resuscitation
research projects of the steering committee have resulted in publications in journals including JAMA1, 27, 60, 61
NEJM,48, 49, 52, 58 Circulation,3, 62-66 Critical Care Medicine,4, 54, 67 Lancet36 and Pediatrics.2, 7, 37, 68-72 Despite these
efforts, the problem – and consequences of - late detection of critical illness persist.
Medical Emergency Teams (MET)/Rapid Response Teams (RRT) provide rapid access to ICU expertise
with the intent of improving patient outcomes.73, 74 A MET-RRT ‘call’ is analogous to an ICU consultation in
hospitals without a MET-RRT. As the effectors of expertise, the impact of the MET-RRT (or other ICU
team) is dependent upon appropriate identification of patients at risk, and timely referral. Following several
positive75-77 and negative78-81 studies of MET-RRT in adult hospitals, a multi-centre, cluster randomized
clinical trial was performed. The primary outcome was a composite of unexpected death, unplanned ICU
admission and cardiac arrest. The MET-RRT used un-validated calling criteria and studied 120,000 adult
patients in 23 hospitals. The trial was negative,82 but provides several important lessons: [1] Calling criteria
were met in <50% of patients with urgent ICU admission – suggesting that the criteria did not identify
patients at risk. [2] The number of patients with ‘no-event’ who met one or more of these calling criteria is
unknown. This number is also unknown for the ‘criteria’ used in the paediatric MET-RRT studies.83-87 [3]
~90% of the patients who met criteria were referred to ICU teams. This occurred in both MET and control
hospitals, suggesting that the calling criteria added little to the expert model. [4] Rates of the composite
outcome fell between the baseline period of observation and the intervention period in both intervention and
control hospitals – suggesting a study effect, and underscoring the importance of baseline event rates. For this
reason we will evaluate baseline event rates in intervention and control hospitals. The other cluster
randomized study of the MET-RRT used the Patient-At-Risk score. Sixteen wards in an 800-bed adult
hospital were randomized over 32 weeks. In this single centre, short-duration study, the MET-RRT was
associated with reduced mortality OR 0.52 (95%CI 0.32-0.85).88
There have been five published studies of the introduction of MET-RRT for children.83-87 All are single
center before and after studies, and variably show reduced rates of code-blue calls,83 respiratory arrests85 and
cardiac arrests84 or no change.87 The two studies showing reduced all-cause hospital mortality were performed
over 6 years84 and 7½ years86 undermining their ability to describe more than time-related improvement in
mortality paralleling population trends.89
Protocol 005 version date 23 February 2011

Page

3

Evaluating processes of care & the outcomes of children in hospital (EPOCH): a cluster randomized trial of
the Bedside Paediatric Early Warning System.
PI: Christopher Parshuram Research Protocol
The Paediatric Critical Care Response Team Collaborative in Ontario (Site leaders: Kotsakis, Gilleland,
Lobos, Morrison) involves four paediatric referral hospitals. Preliminary evaluation of a 4 year before and after
study of the introduction of RRT using the Melbourne calling criteria86 was associated with reductions in
mortality following urgent ICU admission and code-blue calls, with an average of 6 consultations per week in
each site. These data suggest that the “easier access to ICU expertise” with MET-RRT teams may be
associated with improved outcomes, however identification to these ICU teams remains problematic.
Identifying patients-at-risk of near & actual cardiopulmonary arrest is the essential prerequisite. The
properties of identification methods have not been adequately considered in previous studies of MET-RRT
response mechanisms83-87 There are 7 published paediatric severity of illness scores and calling criteria that
quantify severity of illness and use a threshold ‘score’ for ICU referral and or other responses (Table 1).15, 17, 83,
85, 90-92
The development of most methods has been methodologically limited, (no control group, use of data
from very near the time of the cardiac arrest, no modification of items based on statistical analysis of their
performance, use of highly subjective criteria) in comparison with our work.8, 15
There are 4 published calling criteria methods, from Melbourne,17 Bristol,92 Cincinnati,83 and Baltimore.85
The Cincinnati criteria are subjective, and are no longer used at that hospital.83, 93 The Baltimore criteria are
subjective and/or triggered by acute medical diagnoses. The authors write “…having a validated system of
triggers will be an invaluable component of a reliable PMET”.85 The Bristol tool uses a thresholds for airway
(nebulized epinephrine, ‘tiring’), breathing (respiratory rate > threshold, apnoea with bradycardia), circulation
(blood pressure <threshold, prolonged capillary refill time), and disability.92
The Melbourne Criteria were developed from expert opinion. They include cardiac and respiratory arrest
amongst other ‘pre-arrest’ criteria and ‘concern’. Despite increasing use, the ability of these criteria to
distinguish sick from well patients has not been well evaluated. Data from their 2009 publication indicates
that the Melbourne criteria identified 10 of 24 (42%) patients who had cardiac arrests in their hospital.86 In
Ontario paediatric hospitals we found that with the use of the Melbourne criteria, 40% of 150 code blue
events had preceding MET-RRT activations (Kotsakis, Co-I).
There are 4 published paediatric scores, including the Bedside-PEWS Score. They are from Brighton,90
Toronto (2),8, 15 and Cardiff.91 The Brighton score uses behaviour, circulatory (colour, relative tachycardia) and
respiratory (relative increase) domains, and ‘persistent vomiting following surgery’ with a range of 0 –11.90
Subsequent evaluation of this score in a cohort of 2979 children in Cincinnati Children’s Hospital reported 51
PICU transfer events and found an area under the receiver operating characteristics curve of 0.89, with
sensitivity of 78% and specificity of 82% at a threshold score of 5.93
In the development cohort, the Cardiff and Vale score had an area under the receiver operating
characteristics curve of 0.86, with a sensitivity 69% and specificity 90% at a threshold score of 2. Inspection
of the score reveals that children in the first months of life may be expected to routinely score at or above the
threshold (2 points for systolic blood pressure <70 mmHg, and respiratory rate >50 breaths / min). The
authors state: “Further validation studies are required to find the optimum trigger criteria, intra-observer
reliability and completeness of documentation for the different components of these scores”.91
Our original PEWS Score included 16 items. The score performed well (AUCROC 0.91; sensitivity 78%,
specificity 95% at threshold score of 5),15 but its complexity was prohibitive.94 Consequently, we developed
the simpler and equally discriminatory, 7-item Bedside-PEWS score.8
Preliminary work by applicants: Bedside Paediatric Early Warning System
The Bedside Paediatric Early Warning System is a documentation-based system of care for hospitalized
children. There are 4 elements to the Bedside PEWS (Figure 2). [1] The Bedside PEWS score is an expertderived severity of illness score used to quantify severity of illness in children across a range of scores from 026. Using a frequency matched case-control design we found the score was able to differentiate between
children who were urgently admitted to ICU from ‘well’ hospitalized children, with at least one hours notice
before urgent ICU admission (AUROC 0.91). The score has a sensitivity of 83% and specificity of 95% at a
score of 8. In a multi-center validation study with 2074 patients the overall AUCROC was 0.87. We found
the score performed well in sub-populations (Table 2). Amongst ‘case-patients’ the score increased over time
Protocol 005 version date 23 February 2011

Page

4

Evaluating processes of care & the outcomes of children in hospital (EPOCH): a cluster randomized trial of
the Bedside Paediatric Early Warning System.
PI: Christopher Parshuram Research Protocol
leading up to urgent ICU admission or code-blue event, and was independent of the number of risk factors
for cardiac arrest (Figure 3). In clinical use we found the score was reliably calculated, with an Intraclass
Correlation Co-efficient (ICC) of 0.92 (inter-rater reliability of score calculation).
[2] The Bedside-PEWS documentation record was developed using an iterative, multi-disciplinary approach
and resulted in a documentation record with an embedded score calculation mechanism. In pre-clinical
evaluation following their orientation to the documentation record, 96% of 98 frontline staff said the speed of
use of the Bedside-PEWS Documentation Record was acceptable, and 97% said that the documentation
record reinforced or improved their confidence in their clinical impression of the patient.
[3] Score-Matched care recommendations were developed using the responses of 280 healthcare
professionals (80 community, 200 referral) surveyed to determine ‘reasonable’ care. For each survey, cluster
analysis was used to identify similar recommendations, and from these score-matched care recommendations
were developed for community and referral paediatric hospitals.
[4] The Education Program was developed by two nurse educators to support implementation and maintain
expertise. It is based on over 35 years of nursing education experience and established educational principles.
It includes the Bedside PEWS Instructor course and the frontline education program (Figure 4, Appendix
Bedside PEWS Instructor Course).
Differences between Bedside PEWS and other approaches/systems
Differences include: [1] Complete integration of scoring into routine documentation. [2] Explicit institutionrelevant, customizable care recommendations. [3] A scientifically developed and validated severity of illness
score that is better at identifying patients at risk than the retrospective opinion of frontline nurses. [4] A
nurse-educator developed, provider tested implementation program and [5] a pilot evaluation showing
improved outcomes without additional resources (Figure 5).
1.2 What is/are the principal research question(s) to be addressed?
[1] What is the effect of the Bedside Paediatric Early Warning System on mortality and late detection of
critical illness in hospitalized children?
[2] What is the effect of the Bedside Paediatric Early Warning System on processes of care for children
admitted to inpatient wards?
[3] What is the effect of the Bedside Paediatric Early Warning System on resource utilization in children
who are urgently admitted to the PICU?
Objectives
To evaluate the impact of the Bedside-PEWS on early identification of children at risk for near and actual
cardiopulmonary arrest, hospital mortality, processes of care and ICU resource utilization.
Hypothesis
The Bedside-PEWS improves early detection of critical illness, reduces mortality and improves processes of
care and does not increase healthcare resource utilization.
1.3 Why is a trial needed now?
[1] Sufficient preparatory work has been performed to establish that the Bedside-PEWS [a] can be safely
implemented into clinical care, [b] performs better than alternative methods of identifying hospitalized
children at risk of adverse outcome – including retrospective nurse opinion, [c] in pre-clinical and clinical use
is acceptable to frontline providers, and [d] can be reliably calculated.
[2] Clinical practice ‘norms’ for early identification systems are not established - providing a ‘timely’ window
of opportunity to conduct this trial. However there is increasing administrative and clinical interest in METRRT,7 in the context of a growing recognition that appropriate identification criteria are a pre-requisite to
effective MET-RRT, or direct ICU consultation in hospitals without MET-RRT.6, 85
[3] Currently in the US and Canada the majority of hospitals rely upon the ‘expert’ model to detect children
at risk, and either do not have other explicit systems established, or (as in Ontario) are using unproven calling
criteria, or are wondering (in the absence of data) which system to apply. Clinicians and administrators wish
Protocol 005 version date 23 February 2011

Page

5

Evaluating processes of care & the outcomes of children in hospital (EPOCH): a cluster randomized trial of
the Bedside Paediatric Early Warning System.
PI: Christopher Parshuram Research Protocol
to be involved in this trial, and will implement the Bedside PEWS in their hospitals if accordingly
randomized. In the future pressure for ‘action’ may limit the feasibility of this trial.
[4] The problem persists. Near and actual cardiopulmonary arrest is frequent (~5000 times per year in US
and Canadian hospitals), judged to be preventable, and current approaches have not had consistent or
convincing effects on overall outcomes.1, 2, 7, 17, 51, 71, 82, 85 The consequences for individual children and their
families are great, and the associated societal burden is significant.3, 4, 23 [5] In-hospital cardiopulmonary arrest
is a sentinel event. Prevention is a patient safety imperative.
1.4 Systematic Reviews
A Cochrane review of adult outreach and early warning systems identified two randomized trials (Priestley
2004, Hillman 2005- see section 1.2).95 A systematic review of paediatric MET-RRT and identification criteria
was published by Winberg et al. in 2008.96 The search identified 6 identification methods (all in our review)
and 4 (pre-2008) studies of MET-RRT.17, 83, 84, 87
A systematic review of adult and paediatric MET-RRT was published in 2010.97 It identified five paediatric
studies.17, 83-85, 87 The accompanying editorial questioned the benefits of MET-RRT.98 Another review of adult
early warning scores found good performance of adult scores in discriminating ICU from high dependency
patients (AUCROC 0.83-86).99 Others found scores and criteria predicting mortality poorly in adults.100, 101
As part of the development of our original PEWS score we performed a systematic review of identification
methods and individual vital signs. This unpublished data was used to guide item selection in the development
of our original PEWS score.15 With an academic librarian we modified and re-ran this search: it identified
1,069 references (Table 3). After review, one additional study was identified. It was a single-center
implementation of the Brighton score.102 Re-running this search in the Cochrane Library revealed no
additional systematic reviews. There are no randomized trials of paediatric MET-RRT or of methods to
identify children at risk of cardiopulmonary arrest.
1.5 How will the results of this trial be used?
The results of this trial will provide a scientific basis for local, regional, provincial and national decisionmaking, and for the recommendations of national and international bodies (International Liaison Committee
on Resuscitation,103 AHA, European Resuscitation Council104) about cardiac arrest prevention and
institutional best practices. Members of the study team are representatives in these committees, in hospitals,
government and other organizations. If the trial is negative the costs of hospital-wide implementation can be
avoided, resources more appropriately allocated, and the collaborative multi-site data set from the study used
to develop and evaluate new hypotheses about cardiac arrest prevention and processes of care. If we find that
Bedside-PEWS improves identification of children with evolving critical illness, and saves lives, then we have
provided a scientific justification for the major system-level changes required for implementation and
supported the creation of evidence-based policy.
1.6 Describe any risks to the safety of participants involved in the trial.
In control hospitals care will continue with established institutional practices (no additional risk). In hospitals
randomized to implement, there are no known safety issues. Our pilot study suggests improved outcomes,
and demonstrates that the Bedside PEWS can be safely used as part of the care of patients. The lack of
proven efficacy of the Bedside PEWS (and other identification systems) creates the equipoise, supporting the
need for the trial, and supporting the assertion that it is ethical to not implement the Bedside PEWS, other
scores, or MET-RRT during the study.

Protocol 005 version date 23 February 2011

Page

6

Evaluating processes of care & the outcomes of children in hospital (EPOCH): a cluster randomized trial of
the Bedside Paediatric Early Warning System.
PI: Christopher Parshuram Research Protocol

2. THE PROPOSED TRIAL
2.1 Trial design
A cluster-randomized trial of the implementation of the Bedside Paediatric Early Warning System in hospitals
with a paediatric intensive care unit (PICU) will be performed.
2.2 Trial interventions
[1] The Intervention: Bedside PEWS.
The Bedside PEWS is a documentation-based system of care that will replace existing documentation
systems for vital signs in inpatient ward areas in hospitals randomized to receive the Bedside-PEWS.
Frontline staff education within each hospital will occur over a period of three months preceding a 5 week
run-in implementation phase, which will be followed by hospital-wide implementation. The Bedside-PEWS
documentation record will become the primary method of documentation for vital signs and related data. The
Bedside-PEWS score matched care recommendations will have the titles of nursing, physician and ICU teams
modified to match the local vernacular. These site-relevant score matched care recommendations will be
included in each documentation record, on clipboards and pocket-cards in English and French versions of
Bedside-PEWS.
Hospitals with electronic health records that include the 7 items of the Bedside PEWS will be modified so
that the Bedside PEWS documentation record is embedded into the clinical data entry step. This has been
achieved at one center, and we are creating a standard template to assist implementation in other sites with
existing electronic medical record systems.
Preparing for Implementation
Implementation will be conducted in 7 phases (Table 4).
[1] Meeting Local Documentation Standards. The Bedside PEWS documentation record will be
customized to meet the documentation standards of each hospital.
[2] Matching the local vernacular. The language used in the score-matched care recommendations will be
modified to match local norms. Draft copies of the documentation record will be printed and circulated for
local approval before printing.
[3] Bedside PEWS Instructor Course. Nurse educators and the physician lead will attend the 2-day Bedside
PEWS Instructor course. The meeting will occur 2-4 months before clinical implementation begins. This
conference is comprised of an introduction to the Bedside PEWS (rationale, development, scientific basis,
components of Bedside PEWS, Bedside PEWS materials, frontline staff education sessions, frequently asked
questions, and in-session evaluations). The expected outcomes of the Bedside PEWS Instructor course and
meeting are (a) demonstration of technical competence, (b) description of the implementation environment,
(c) articulation of an implementation plan, (d) making a plan for ongoing communication with the Bedside
PEWS educators, and [4] below.
[4] Articulating the site-specific plan for run-in and hospital-wide implementation.
[5] Frontline staff education. Nurse educators and the physician lead will conduct frontline staff education
sessions to educate the frontline paediatric staff at their center. Training will occur over the 4-month period,
beginning 3 months before the start of the run-in implementation. Training will include 2-hour small-group
(6-8 person per educator) education sessions, and 1-2 hours of interactive use of the Bedside PEWS
documentation record as we have done previously. Our evaluation of 98 frontline staff showed that this
education program is effective and appropriate and could be conducted easily over 5-6 weeks (Figure 4).
The technical competence of frontline staff with Bedside PEWS after training will be assessed following the
frontline staff education sessions as follows: each will document a total of 10 sets of vital signs from 3
relevant case scenarios selected by the Bedside PEWS Instructor from the on-line Bedside PEWS case library
(to be created from our paper-based library of 120 scenarios). All participants will chart on paper
documentation records – irrespective of the documentation system in their institution. The calculated score
will be compared with the ‘gold’ standard score that is electronically calculated. Individuals will be regarded as
‘competent’ if their intraclass correlation co-efficient (ICC) is >0.90, and they have no scores more than 2
Protocol 005 version date 23 February 2011

Page

7

Evaluating processes of care & the outcomes of children in hospital (EPOCH): a cluster randomized trial of
the Bedside Paediatric Early Warning System.
PI: Christopher Parshuram Research Protocol
different than the electronically calculated score. Staff identified as having difficulty with scoring will be
provided additional training and re-evaluated. Our experience, training 120 staff, identified no staff that
required additional training. We found the ICC for scoring of the Bedside PEWS score comparing Bedside
PEWS educators with newly trained staff was 0.92 and in real patients there was an ICC of 0.90 for repeated
scoring of 786 scores. One score was more than 2 points different between the frontline RN and the Bedside
PEWS RN (accepted JPCH).
[6] A run-in phase will permit phased implementation in each hospital. This will permit focussed
implementation in pre-specified hospital wards, identification of local challenges and implementation of
effective solutions. The solutions will be drawn from local knowledge, from the Bedside PEWS team, and
from the experiences of other implementing sites. Information sharing will be facilitated by teleconferences.
For 4 days per week, beginning the first day of the second week of implementation, study staff will review the
most recent 12 hours of documentation from 10-15 randomly selected patients for whom the Bedside PEWS
documentation record is being used. At the end of each week a minimum of 40 12-hour periods of
documentation will have been assessed. Rates of accurate score calculation, (Aim: >80% of calculated scores
within 2 points), score completeness (Aim: >5 of 7 score items used for >80% of scores calculated), and the
frequency of vital sign assessment (Aim: >80% of patients within recommendations) will be determined for
patients assessed each week.
These data will be used to guide the Bedside PEWS instructors, other local educators, and frontline staff.
Interim data will be reviewed at least twice per week. The data from hospitals not achieving targets by the
fourth week will be reviewed by the study executive steering committee to evaluate the appropriateness of
implementation at that site.
[7] Hospital-wide Implementation will occur on the specified date. (5 weeks after the completion of the 26
week baseline period). Following implementation local nurse educators and the physician lead will provide
ongoing frontline staff support, complemented by regular teleconferences and site visits.
Control Hospitals: Standard Care. Hospitals randomized to standard care will continue with established
methods of care. This will include the use of calling criteria and/or the expert model to identify children at
risk. As in intervention hospitals, existing MET-RRT practices, established staffing and documentation
practices will continue.
2.3 Allocation of participating hospitals to trial groups
Randomization will be balanced within two strata; hospital size (<200 vs. ≥200 eligible inpatient ward beds).
Within each stratum half the hospitals will be randomly selected to receive Bedside PEWS, while the
remaining hospitals will comprise the control arm. Allocation will be concealed until the start of the study
measurements and will be revealed in the 2nd week after the start of data collection at each site (Figure 6). The
6-month baseline period will be used to prepare for implementation in hospitals randomized to the Bedside
PEWS intervention.
2.4 Proposed methods for protecting against sources of bias
As in previous randomized82, 88 and before-after studies83-87 of MET-RRT, the nature of the study will not
permit blinding of allocation to personnel in participating hospitals nor of the site co-ordinators assessing
outcomes. In addition to randomization, the study design employs the following approaches to reduce bias:
[1] Balanced randomization of hospitals (as described above).
[2] Minimization of contamination. This will be achieved by [a] randomization at the hospital level, as
recommended by Tibballs,86 [b] separation of personnel from hospitals randomized to each arm of the study.
This will be achieved by having separate training and study meetings for study personnel randomized to
alternate arms of the trial. [c] In addition, the project manager and the Bedside PEWS research assistants will
be instructed not to discuss the details of the Bedside PEWS intervention with staff from hospitals
randomized to standard care.
[3] Using objective reproducible outcomes measured using standardized approaches and quality control. This
will be achieved by site co-ordinator training, and site inspections from the Project Manager/Bedside PEWS
study co-ordinators and the PI.
Protocol 005 version date 23 February 2011

Page

8

Evaluating processes of care & the outcomes of children in hospital (EPOCH): a cluster randomized trial of
the Bedside Paediatric Early Warning System.
PI: Christopher Parshuram Research Protocol
[4] Using blinded adjudication of the potential preventability of cardiac arrests.
[5] By blinding the analytic team to allocation.
[6] Evaluating baseline event rates will improve the interpretation the trial results. The presence of a
‘Hawthorne’ or contamination effect from being studied will be evaluated and adjusted by use of baseline
measurements of clinical and process of care outcomes. In the MERIT cluster RCT study of adult MET-RRT
event rates reduced from baseline to intervention period in both intervention and control hospitals.82
2.5 Inclusion/exclusion criteria
Inclusion: Participating hospitals will constitute the clusters randomized in this trial. Eligible hospitals will
provide care for more than 200 inpatient admissions aged <18 years and >37 weeks gestational age in eligible
inpatient wards each year. Eligible hospitals will have specialised paediatric physicians (including
paediatricians, paediatric surgeons, other paediatric sub-specialists) and, one or more intensive care unit
(PICU) that provides care for children. A PICU is a designated, staffed area for prolonged mechanical
ventilation, invasive monitoring and circulatory support for children- including but not limited to neonates.
Other areas designated for patients of increased acuity, such as ‘constant observation’ or ‘high dependency’ or
‘step-down’ units will be regarded as part of the PICU where the PICU staff physicians are wholly or jointly
responsible for the care of children in these areas (can write orders in the chart).
Participating hospitals may or may not have a MET-RRT for children. A MET-RRT is defined as an
identified team of one or more trained healthcare professionals who report to an on service PICU physician,
and perform urgent consultations on hospital inpatients.74
Eligible inpatient wards are areas where care is provided to patients who are admitted to the hospital, other
than PICU, operating rooms, and other designated areas where anaesthetist-supervised procedures are
performed. Admitted patients cared for in emergency departments will be regarded as in an eligible ‘ward’ if
the documentation format is the same in the emergency department as in the inpatient ward. If the emergency
department continues to use a separate ‘emergency department’ documentation record for admitted patients
then the emergency department will be deemed an ineligible area. This distinction is based on the potential
for changed documentation if the hospital is randomized to implement the Bedside PEWS. All eligible
inpatient wards will participate in the study. Eligible patients: Within eligible hospitals we will study patients
older than 37 weeks gestational age and less than 18 years who are admitted to eligible inpatient wards, who
receive care in an eligible inpatient area during the study.
Exclusions: We will exclude hospitals that have plans to introduce a new ‘medical emergency team’ during
the study, and where a severity of illness score (Brighton, Cardiff, PEWS, Bedside PEWS or other
unpublished score) is used in ward areas, and in hospitals where randomization is not deemed acceptable.
These exclusion criteria ensure that major system changes including introduction of MET-RRT, new
documentation systems, physician staffing, and hospital capacity will not bias results.
Excluded patients will be those who are less than 37 weeks gestational age throughout their hospitalization,
patients who are cared for exclusively in an NICU, and children who are admitted directly to a PICU and die
before PICU discharge and thus have not received care in an eligible inpatient ward. These children have not
been exposed to the intervention / control ‘treatment’ as they have not been in an eligible inpatient ward.
2.6 Duration of treatment
The intervention period will be for 12 months (52 weeks). This will begin 7 months (31 weeks) from the start
of baseline data collection at that hospital. A 1-year period has been chosen for 3 reasons: [1] to reduce the
effects of seasonal variation. Studies of less than 12 months may be affected by systematic differences in
patient volume and outcomes related to seasonal illness. [2] A multi-year intervention period (ie 2 years or
longer) requires a significantly greater period of observation and greater commitment from each hospital,
limiting study feasibility. [3] Timely completion of the study is concordant with decision-making needs, and is
feasible with the available number of sites.
2.7 Follow up frequency and duration
Outcomes will be prospectively assessed for 6 months (26 weeks) to provide baseline data. Then following
the 5-week period (during which the run in will occur in intervention hospitals) outcomes will be
Protocol 005 version date 23 February 2011

Page

9

Evaluating processes of care & the outcomes of children in hospital (EPOCH): a cluster randomized trial of
the Bedside Paediatric Early Warning System.
PI: Christopher Parshuram Research Protocol
prospectively assessed for 12 months (52 weeks, Figure 6). The timing and duration of outcome assessment
will be the same in intervention and control hospitals, and will total 18 months (6 month baseline and 12
months ‘intervention period’ for a total of 78 weeks) irrespective of treatment allocation.
2.8 Outcome measures
Primary Outcome: All Cause Hospital Mortality.
All cause hospital mortality will include all deaths of eligible inpatients who were cared for in an eligible
inpatient ward during their hospital stay. This includes anticipated deaths in children with ‘Do Not
Resuscitate’ orders. Deaths in children cared for exclusively in the PICU, NICU, Emergency Department (or
combinations of these) will be excluded as these children have not been cared for in an inpatient ward eligible
for implementation of the Bedside PEWS.
Rationale: [1] The objectivity and reliability of measurement makes all cause hospital mortality an ideal
primary outcome in this trial. [2] Reduced all cause hospital mortality is the goal of any intervention to
improve the outcomes of care, and as such should be a major focus of evaluations to improve the outcomes
of hospitalized children. [3] Other studies of MET-RRT (using before and after design over many years) have
reported reduced all cause mortality84, 86 underscoring the clinical relevance of all cause mortality. [4] Most
deaths in children receiving cardiopulmonary resuscitation occur during the index hospitalization. In our 6year study of in-ICU cardiac arrest we found one (1.4%) additional death after hospital discharge and within
12 month of the index cardiac arrest. This is consistent with other studies showing that most hospitalized
children who die, die in hospital.105, 106 , 107, 108 [5] The effect of palliative care services on place of death is
small.107, 109-112 One large US study found the proportion of deaths in hospital reduced by less than 6% (from
85.7 to 80.1%) over a 10 year period.110 [6] All cause mortality is an established quality metric in Canadian and
British adult hospitals, and is publicly reported as the Standardized Mortality Ratio in Ontario Hospitals.46, 47,
113-115
[7] While death with ‘DNR’ vs. ‘unexpected’ deaths (no DNR), has been used as a definition to separate
‘preventable’ from ‘unpreventable’ deaths following acute events in adult patients (in-hospital cardiac arrest),82,
116
in hospitalized children there are significant limitations to the use of the DNR orders to make this
distinction. First, DNR orders reflect current expectations of outcome and do not reflect the ‘preventability’ of
the preceding clinical events. Second, the majority of deaths in hospitalized children occur remote from the
clinical deterioration event (days),2, 4, 19, 54, 57, 117 in contrast to relatively short time (hours) between DNR order
and death.118-120 This suggests that the outcome of the earlier (and potentially modifiable) resuscitation event is
influencing the DNR discussions and decision-making, providing further support to the notion that DNR
and preventable deaths are separate concepts. Conversely, ‘futile’ resuscitation may be performed on
hospitalized children.121 We will evaluate the frequency of DNR orders and perform analyses of patients with
and without DNR. [8] The lead author of the Harvard Medical Practice Study asserted that all cause hospital
mortality is a better measure of quality of care than ‘preventable’ death.122 [9] Other, objective and
reproducible assessments of ‘preventable’ are challenging and resource intense.123-126 Notwithstanding these
limitations, we will evaluate the potential preventability of cardiac arrest as described below.
Secondary Outcomes
The main secondary outcome is the Significant Clinical Deterioration Event. This is a composite outcome
comprised of the treatment(s) provided or death prior to transfer from an inpatient ward (Table 5). A
significant clinical deterioration event will be defined as the provision of significant respiratory or circulatory
therapies or cardiopulmonary resuscitation in the 12 hours before transfer from inpatient ward or the one
hour after transfer, or death without DNR order in an inpatient ward. Transfer is defined as a patient transfer
from an inpatient ward to a PICU. This outcome excludes patients with DNR orders – and is thus a measure
of the timeliness of interventions in children for whom active resuscitation is anticipated.
Rationale: [1] Experience and our data suggest that Significant Clinical Deterioration Events are associated
with increased risk of mortality and acquired neuro-cognitive morbidity, and reduced quality of life.5
[2] Significant clinical deterioration represents one of the ‘worst’ safety outcomes following care in hospitals.
If significant clinical deterioration events can be reduced or prevented by the Bedside-PEWS this will be a
major advance in patient safety. [3] Composite outcomes composed of relevant components – including
Protocol 005 version date 23 February 2011

Page

10

Evaluating processes of care & the outcomes of children in hospital (EPOCH): a cluster randomized trial of
the Bedside Paediatric Early Warning System.
PI: Christopher Parshuram Research Protocol
death are frequently used in clinical trials including the MERIT study of adult MET-RRT82 and in other CIHR
funded paediatric critical care trials.48, 49 [4] Rather than reporting the frontline staff perception of need – as
indicated by the code blue call, the significant clinical deterioration event is a measure of the treatment
provided to each patient. [5] Our single center before–after evaluation showed fewer Significant Clinical
Deterioration Events with Bedside-PEWS (Accepted JPCH 2010). [6] This measure has been presented to, and
approved by, the members of the Canadian Critical Care Trials Group (CCCTG) and the Pediatric Acute
Lung Injury and Sepsis Investigators (PALISI).
Secondary outcomes: Clinical
Eight additional clinical outcomes will be recorded.
[1] The nature of clinical deterioration events. This outcome is rated on the seven-point Children’s
Resuscitation Intensity Scale (Table 5). This scale is comprised of the treatment(s) provided in the 12 hours
before transfer to PICU, and death prior to transfer in patients admitted either [a] directly from an inpatient
ward or [b] from an inpatient ward via the operating theatre –when the urgent PICU admission was initiated
in the eligible inpatient ward. Urgent PICU admissions that are initiated when the patient is in the operating
room will not be regarded as clinical deterioration events.
Treatments include non-invasive and invasive respiratory support, circulatory support (intravascular fluids,
inotropes and mechanical support) and combinations of these. The scale includes interventions performed in
the first hour after ICU admission (intubation, cardiopulmonary resuscitation, starting mechanical circulatory
support).
The nature of clinical deterioration events is a measure of the timeliness of interventions in children for
whom active resuscitation is anticipated. Thus we exclude patients with ‘Do Not Resuscitate’ (DNR) orders
or equivalent if these are in place before cardiac or respiratory arrest. This approach ensures [1] the inclusion of
patients where cardiopulmonary resuscitation was started, was subsequently deemed futile, and then was
stopped using a DNR-type order, and [2] the exclusion of patients who have an anticipated death with DNR
order in place.
[2] Potentially preventable cardiac arrest will be evaluated in all patients who had a cardiac arrest while in
an eligible inpatient ward, without a preceding DNR order (rated as 6 or 7 on the Children’s Resuscitation
Intensity Scale). In this study potential preventability is defined as the degree to which ‘events may have been
avoided given the application of reasonable current (2011) standards of practice by an average practitioner
and system anticipated to manage the condition in question’. This subjective definition is based on those used
previously in adverse event studies.9, 11, 14, 126, 127
Potential preventability of cardiac arrest events will be rated on the 6-point scale used in the Quality in
Australian Health Care Study and the Canadian Adverse Event Study (Table 7).9, 126 Events with a consensus
rating of at >4 will be regarded as potentially preventable cardiac arrests. Thus potential preventability ratings
of 4: ‘more than likely (more than 50/50, but “close call”)’, 5: ‘Strong evidence of preventability’, and 6:
‘Virtually certain evidence of preventability’ will be deemed potentially preventable cardiac arrest events.
The potentially preventability of cardiac arrest events will be determined using the opinion of blinded
reviewers. Reviewers will be selected as follows: Candidate reviewers (physicians with >5 years independent
practice in a paediatric hospital) will receive standardized instruction about the definitions (above), the scoring
method, will participate in a group meeting to discuss potential examples of events for review, and will each
complete 20 reviews of practice cases from the Bedside PEWS library. The Executive Steering Committee
will review the anonymized results of these initial ratings, and make the final determination of which
reviewers will perform the rate the potential preventability. An intraclass correlation co-efficient will be
calculated to represent the inter-rater reliability of the selected reviewers.
Following this preparation the event reviews will be conducted to determine the consensus rating. Two
expert physician reviewers will independently review clinical data from each event. Clinical data from each
significant clinical deterioration event where a cardiac arrest occurred will be abstracted (Table 6, Case Report
Form) and presented in a standardized format for review. The patient data will be anonymized and delinked,
and hospital identifiers will be anonymized before adjudication panel review.
Protocol 005 version date 23 February 2011

Page

11

Evaluating processes of care & the outcomes of children in hospital (EPOCH): a cluster randomized trial of
the Bedside Paediatric Early Warning System.
PI: Christopher Parshuram Research Protocol
The goal of the independent rating by the two reviewers is to obtain a consensus rating. For events where
potential preventability ratings are concordant, this rating will be used as the consensus rating. For discordant
ratings the reviewers will discuss the event and agree on a consensus rating. If a consensus cannot be reached
between the initial reviewers after discussion then a third reviewer (who has >10 years paediatric hospital
practice) will become involved. The third reviewer will review the data of the event, and discuss with the two
reviewers to facilitate consensus. The resulting rating will be used as the consensus rating. If consensus
between the two initial reviewers still cannot be reached then the opinion of the third reviewer will be used as
the consensus rating. We will report the kappa for the independent ratings (before discussion) of the two
reviewers. Potentially preventable cardiac arrest events will be expressed per thousand patient days.
Additional methodologic evaluations of approaches to the assessment of potential preventability will use this
dataset (with delinked patient identifiers and hospital data).
[3] Unplanned re-admission to hospital within 48 hours of hospital discharge. This outcome will be
operationalized as re-admission before midnight of the second day of discharge. Thus re-admission will occur
before the 3rd midnight following hospital discharge.
For all eligible patients discharged from a PICU to an eligible hospital ward we will record:
[4] Unplanned PICU readmission within 48 hours of PICU discharge. Again this will be operationalized as
readmission to PICU before midnight of the second complete day following PICU discharge (or stated
alternately; before the third midnight following PICU discharge).
PICU mortality, and unplanned re-admission (hospital, PICU) will be represented per thousand hospital
discharges.
In patients urgently admitted to the PICU from a hospital inpatient ward we will measure:
[5] PIM score predicted risk of mortality.43, 128
[6] PICU mortality.
[7] The PELOD score for PICU stay and the first 24 hours in PICU.129
[8] Ventilator free days (days alive and without invasive mechanical ventilation) in the 28 days beginning at
PICU admission will be recorded for the first PICU admission during each of the baseline and the postrandomization periods. Patients with repeat PICU admissions will have all other in-ICU outcomes recorded.
Exclusion of measurement of ventilator free days from PICU re-admissions will avoid double counting
resulting in the attribution of ventilated days from the second urgent PICU admission to the first PICU
admission.
Urgent PICU admission is an admission to PICU with departure from the event location in <6 hours from
the time the PICU admission was initiated. Initiation is the time that the PICU admission is confirmed, or
confirmed as a ‘definite possibility following surgery’ in cases where post-operative care in the PICU might
(might not) be required. PICU admissions initiated in the OR are also regarded as urgent ICU admissions,
irrespective of the time between initiation and departure from the OR.
Secondary outcomes: Process of care
The study includes 5 process of care assessments.
[1] ‘Stat’ calls will be defined as those requesting immediate physician attendance to provide patient care to a
patient admitted to an inpatient ward.
[2] Code Blue calls for immediate medical assistance of the resuscitation team and equipment.
[3] Urgent consultations to the ICU or MET-RRT will be recorded. The total number of new
consultation episodes will be counted. Patients who have been previously consulted on will be regarded as
having a new consult if an urgent call is made that results in an unplanned or earlier than planned review. We
will exclude planned review visits by the ICU team or the MET-RRT.
[4] Documentation. The frequency that each of the ‘vital’ signs (HR, RR, SBP, Temperature) and the other
4 signs of the Bedside PEWS score (Transcutaneous oxygen saturation, respiratory effort, oxygen therapy,
capillary refill) are documented in 24 hours will be recorded from five randomly (central computerized
randomization) selected patients each week. We will review documented physician visits, the nurse patient ratio
Protocol 005 version date 23 February 2011

Page

12

Evaluating processes of care & the outcomes of children in hospital (EPOCH): a cluster randomized trial of
the Bedside Paediatric Early Warning System.
PI: Christopher Parshuram Research Protocol
and the use of continuous monitoring. [5] Frontline staff will complete the documentation and interaction
survey (2 pages, <10 minutes to complete) that describes their perceptions of the documentation system, and
the nature of interactions with physicians (Appendix Questionnaire).
Secondary outcomes: Resource Utilization
Resource utilization will be assessed in all hospitals by measuring Hospital Length of Stay, and following
urgent ICU admission, ICU Length of Stay and the use of ICU technologies: mechanical ventilation
(ventilator days), haemodialysis (dialysis days), ECMO (days) and Days with Nitric Oxide while in the ICU.
‘Dialysis’ will include haemo-filtration and haemodialysis techniques used either intermittently and
continuously (or both), peritoneal dialysis, plasmaphersis, and red-cell exchange.
Exit Survey
Three months after the end of the 12 month intervention period we will conduct a survey of site-investigators
and administrative leads. The survey will ask about the planned actions of each site with respect to the use of
Bedside PEWS. This will provide important information about intended use outside the research context. We
will compare the before –after event rates of hospitals that implemented Bedside PEWS with the plans made
by local decision-makers. Eligible decision-makers will include; Hospital Chief Executive Officers (CEOs),
Chief Nursing Officers (CNO), Vice Presidents, and heads of a clinical departments, divisions or services.
Eligible services include senior nursing administrators for inpatient ward areas, resuscitation committee heads,
and medical emergency team leaders.
At each hospital a maximum of 10 eligible leaders will be selected by the EPOCH study team. A minimum of
4 decision-makers will be identified the CEO, the CNO, the clinical head of paediatric surgery and the clinical
head of paediatric medicine. Hospitals with more than 80 beds will identify 2 additional decision-makers;
hospitals with more than 120 beds will identify 4 additional decision-makers, and hospitals with more than
180 beds will identify an additional 6 decision-makers. The identified decision-makers will be approached by a
neutral third-party peer to introduce the study. Decision-makers indicating interest in the study will then be
contacted by the site investigator or their delegate to discuss completion of the survey.
2.9 Study measurements
Study measurements will be prospectively recorded by trained site co-ordinators, and will be distilled from
multiple overlapping sources: [1] real-time reports from hospital information systems; [2] written
admission/discharge records in PICU and other areas; [3] hospital switchboard paging logs; [4] mortuary logs;
[5] code-blue team logs, [6] from clerical and clinical staff; and [7] from the medical records as we have done
successfully in our prior studies.
In all hospitals, site co-ordinators will record the numbers of hospital discharges, inpatient ward-days, and
ICU discharges and ICU-days at hospital discharge. Patient days will be defined as the presence of a patient in
the designated area for all or part of a 24-hour day (00:00–23:59). Hospital days will be include all eligiblepatient days where patients are admitted to hospital inpatient wards (not PICU, NICU), and ICU days will be
defined as whole or part days in PICU. At the end of baseline and intervention periods patients will be
regarded as discharged from the hospital (inpatient ward and PICU).
Hospital characteristics will be recorded at 4 time periods after the start of study measurements [1] in the
first week, [2] in the 5th month (in week 22, 23 or 24), [3] in the 12th month (in week 54, 55 or 56) and [4] in
the last month of the intervention period (in week 81, 82 or 83). This will enable evaluation of organizational
stability within participating hospitals.
All-cause hospital mortality and ICU mortality will be measured by reviewing the medical records of all
children dying in hospital. Screening will include review of mortuary logs and PICU discharge documentation.
The presence and date-time of DNR order at the time of death will be recorded. Code-blue calls to
resuscitation teams, stat calls for physicians, and unplanned hospital readmission will be prospectively
screened. Each event will be identified and confirmed as for an eligible patient who was cared for in an
eligible inpatient ward. Clinical deterioration events will be measured by daily review of intra-facility transfers
to PICU and of deaths in inpatient wards. The nature of each clinical deterioration event will be determined
by medical record review (Table 5). The medical record of identified patients will be reviewed to determine
Protocol 005 version date 23 February 2011

Page

13

Evaluating processes of care & the outcomes of children in hospital (EPOCH): a cluster randomized trial of
the Bedside Paediatric Early Warning System.
PI: Christopher Parshuram Research Protocol
that the child had been cared for in an eligible area (inpatient ward), if there was a documented DNR order at
the time of death (and before cardiopulmonary resuscitation if this was provided) and the place of death
(PICU or other).
Potentially preventable cardiac arrest events will have demographic information and current clinical data,
including 13 hours vital signs, current investigations and interventions will be abstracted (Table 6), verified by
the site investigator, patient identifiers removed and submitted for blinded rating of potential preventability.
Documentation frequency. Five randomly selected patients will be identified each week. Local study
evaluators will document the number of times each ‘vital’ sign (HR, RR, SBP, temperature) and other signs
within the Bedside PEWS score (transcutaneous oxygen saturation, respiratory effort, oxygen therapy,
capillary refill) were documented in the preceding 24 hours (Appendix: Case Report Form). The documentation
and interaction survey (Appendix: Questionnaire) will be administered to all frontline staff by the site coordinator, 2 months into the baseline and 3 and 9 months after the start of the randomization phase.
ICU outcomes and resource utilization in patients who are admitted urgently to an ICU will be measured
as follows: Site co-ordinators will prospectively record ICU days, PELOD score for the duration of ICU stay,
days of ICU resource utilization, ventilator free days and ICU survival. Data will be reviewed at the time of
site visits, and 5% of randomly selected records will be compared with source data by the Bedside-PEWS
Study coordinator.
In hospitals randomized to implement Bedside PEWS, implementation data will be reported (anonymized)
from implementing hospitals in real time, by a secure web-based linkage (Appendix: Research IT). This
approach will permit rapid creation of reports indicating agreement between trainee and trainer, concordance
with computer-calculated scores, completeness of scoring, and adherence to recommendations.
We have significant previous experience with primary collection and co-ordinating multi-site data (Bedside
PEWS, Ontario PCCRT collaborative, other previous multi-center trials). Each site co-ordinator will update a local
clinical database and report de-identified data to the study co-ordinating center via secure web connection
(256 bit encryption). Completed anonymous surveys and the review of documentation practice will be copied
and sent by registered mail and/or sent by facsimile to the study co-ordinating center for data entry.
2.10 Health service research issues
This trial directly and indirectly addresses health-service and health-economic issues: [1] The study will
provide a scientific basis for decision-making about a hospital-level intervention. This intervention requires
allocation of healthcare resources for its implementation and maintenance. [2] While quality of life is not
measured due to limitations of resources, our preliminary work shows that children receiving more
resuscitation have lower quality of life and greater neurocognitive deficits.5 [3] The current study will evaluate
differences in the use of resource intense ICU therapies (ventilation, dialysis, plasmapheresis, ECMO, and
nitric oxide days) in hospitals with and without Bedside PEWS.
2.11 Sample size and assumptions
Power calculations were based on population estimates derived from local data using a published method
for cluster RCTs.130 For all cause mortality in referral hospitals we found a baseline rate of 5.1 per thousand
(data from 14 hospitals). The steering committee agreed that a mortality reduction of less than 1/1000
admissions would not be a compelling reason to modify practice. A study with 20 hospitals can show an 18%
relative risk reduction in mortality (Absolute Risk Reduction 0.09%), given alpha=0.05 (2-sided),
power=80%, mean of 119 paediatric beds, length of stay=4 days, with 0.90 average occupancy, k=0.15, n=20,
baseline rate= 5.1/1000. The quantity k is the coefficient of variation for mortality between hospitals.
Allowing for the potential attrition of 1-2 hospitals during the study we will study 22 hospitals.
Available data from participating hospitals indicates that randomization will occur in sites with a total of
2322 beds; 99,389 patient admissions, admitted for 397,556 patient days (hospital length of stay 4 days). Data
from 4 paediatric hospitals in Ontario describes 1052 Urgent ICU admissions/ year, of which we estimate
(Figure 1) 40% are Significant Clinical Deterioration Events (SCDE), for a rate of 2 per thousand patient
days. Thus with 20 sites we will be able to show a 31% reduction in SCDE (alpha = 0.05(2-sided) power =
Protocol 005 version date 23 February 2011

Page

14

Evaluating processes of care & the outcomes of children in hospital (EPOCH): a cluster randomized trial of
the Bedside Paediatric Early Warning System.
PI: Christopher Parshuram Research Protocol
80%, k= 0.15, where k is the coefficient of variation for SCDE rate between hospitals). The assumption of a
modest k is consistent with an analytic approach using baseline rates (Sample Size Appendix).
2.12 Participation
We will recruit the first 22 hospitals (~2300 inpatient beds) with REB approval. The Bedside-PEWS is a
hospital-level intervention modifying documentation in hospital inpatient wards. As such all (~100,000)
eligible inpatients will be ‘involved’ in the trial.
The investigators believe that patient-level consent should not be required for five main reasons: First, the
local documentation system is ‘inherited’ by patients as a part of routine hospital practice. This approach to
documentation is applied to all patients. Hospitals implementing Bedside PEWS have elected to adopt this as
the standard approach in their hospital. Control hospitals continue established practices. Consent for routine
documentation practice (and other practices including staffing, ICU consultation, physician review) is implied
with hospital admission. Consequently, a requirement for consent to receive the routine practice seems
counter-intuitive. Second, the patient-level data is retrospectively obtained, does not require additional clinical
investigation, and there is no contact with patients or their families. We have conducted similar data reviews
in paediatric hospitals in Canada and the United Kingdom without patient consent. Third, obtaining consent
to describe clinical deterioration events that have not occurred (and that may not occur) is potentially
distressing to families and is inefficient use of research resources. Fourth, consent for the participation of
100,000 patents is not feasible, and if required would significantly undermine the scientific validity of the
study. Finally, data will be presented in aggregate. No identifying information will leave the study office in the
participating hospital. Furthermore, in our assessment of potentially preventable cardiac arrests we will delink
the evaluated data from patient-level identifiers.
Individual-level consent from healthcare professionals will be obtained as deemed appropriate for staff
surveys and the post-study survey of administrative intent. In our previous use of the anonymously completed
documentation and interaction survey, participant consent has been implied by survey completion. This
approach has worked well for participants and the study teams involved.
2.13 Compliance
Implementation of the Bedside-PEWS is a major knowledge translation activity. It involves training, and
subsequent collaboration with the Bedside-PEWS Instructors at implementing hospitals, effective delivery of
the education program, uptake of education the frontline staff, and clinical application. Potential issues with
compliance to study procedures will be managed as follows: [1] Centralized training (Bedside-PEWS
Instructor course). [2] Explicit articulation of goals and timelines for each study site. [3] The intervention
includes a 5-week run-in period of implementation in 20-30 beds. This run-in phase will permit hospitals
randomized to implement the Bedside PEWS to have focussed local application, real-time evaluation of
performance, and feedback to optimize implementation, and create a local template for successful
implementation. [4] Review of documentation (implementing sites) will be used to assess the compliance with
vital sign documentation and score calculation, using site-specific reports. [5] Formal Review of #2, #3 in
weekly teleconferences. [6] Scheduled site visits by members of the study team, and [7] additional site visits as
required.
2.14 Loss to follow up
We do not anticipate loss to follow up of hospitals or patients within hospitals. In the calculation of ventilator
free days we will assume that patients who are discharged from hospital within 28 days of urgent ICU
admission are alive and without a ventilator.
2.15 How many centers will be involved?
The study will involve 22 hospitals. The inclusion of international sites provides a greater variety and number
of hospitals ensuring adequate power to identify clinically important differences and increasing the
generalizability.

Protocol 005 version date 23 February 2011

Page

15

Evaluating processes of care & the outcomes of children in hospital (EPOCH): a cluster randomized trial of
the Bedside Paediatric Early Warning System.
PI: Christopher Parshuram Research Protocol
2.16 Analysis
Demographic and unadjusted outcomes data will be reported using means, median, variances, inter-quartile
ranges, or as proportions with 95% confidence intervals. Outcomes will be reported for the baseline and
intervention periods for each hospital consistent with published recommendations for cluster randomized
trials. 131 Baseline event rates will be determined using 6 months of prospective data.
Primary analysis: All-cause hospital mortality will be evaluated using a logit regression model. The
dependent variable will be the logit of the proportion dying in each hospital. The independent variables will
include a dummy indicator for treatment arm, the baseline mortality logit and the hospital size stratification
variable. The analysis will be weighted by the size of the hospital.
Secondary Analyses: An identical logit model will be used for (a) ICU-mortality after urgent ICU admission
where the PICU admission was initiated in a hospital ward, (b) ICU-mortality after urgent ICU admission
initiated in the OR, (c) unplanned hospital re-admission within 48 hr of hospital discharge and (d) all cause
mortality following DNR orders. Significant Clinical Deterioration Events, code blue events, stat calls and
urgent ICU consultations per 1000 patient-days will be evaluated using Poisson regression using hospital-level
aggregated count data. The independent variables will include a dummy indicator for treatment arm, the
baseline event rate and the hospital size stratification variable. A linear regression model, in which the withinhospital mean is the dependent variable, will be used to evaluate (a) the nature of clinical deterioration events,
(b) inpatient ward patient-days, and in patients urgently admitted to PICU: (c) the PIM2 score, (d) the
PELOD score, (e) ventilator free days, (f) ICU-patient days, and (g) ICU therapy days (each of mechanical
ventilation, ECMO, dialysis, plasmapheresis and nitric oxide use). The independent variables will include a
dummy indicator for treatment arm, the baseline means and the hospital size stratification variable. The
analysis will be weighted by the size of the hospital.
An identical linear regression model will be used to evaluate the frequency of vital sign documentation from
the randomly selected patient records. Since the number of records abstracted will be the same in each
hospital, weighting will not be necessary. Documentation will be evaluated as follows: the number of Heart
Rate, Respiratory Rate, Systolic Blood Pressure, Trans-cutaneous oxygen saturation, Capillary Refill, oxygen
therapy and respiratory effort measurements, and the number of times that all seven items were documented
for the randomly selected patients, will be compared for patients in hospitals with and without Bedside
PEWS. All analyses will adjust for baseline event rates and hospital strata. Linear regression will be used to
compare the numbers of [1] vital signs documented, [2] documented physician visits, [3] the nurse patient
ratio and the use of [4] continuous ECG monitoring and [5] continuous pulse oxymeter monitoring will be
made with the Bedside PEWS scores calculated from the abstracted clinical data.
Analysis of the documentation and interaction survey, the post Bedside PEWS education survey and the
post-study decision-maker survey data will be descriptive. Comparisons will be made between groups using
linear regression weighted by the size of the hospital.
A-priori Subgroup analyses
The following sub-group analyses will be performed. [1] Hospital size. Hospitals will be classified on the
basis of the number of eligible inpatient ward beds. Hospitals with 200 or more eligible inpatient ward beds
will constitute one group and those with less than 200 eligible inpatient ward beds the other. This consistent
with the stratification method used for randomization. [2] Hospitals with and without medical emergency
teams. [3] Hospitals with ECMO for children. [4] patients with urgent PICU admission initiated in an
inpatient ward.
The study outcome analyses will be performed once. There will be no interim analysis. Dr A Willan (senior
statistician and co-investigator) will supervise and assume responsibility for analyses. He will report the
findings to the Executive Steering Committee for clinical interpretation.

Protocol 005 version date 23 February 2011

Page

16

Evaluating processes of care & the outcomes of children in hospital (EPOCH): a cluster randomized trial of
the Bedside Paediatric Early Warning System.
PI: Christopher Parshuram Research Protocol
In addition, exploratory analyses will evaluate the relationships between responses to the post Bedside
PEWS education survey and in the results of [1] the documentation and interaction surveys and [2] the vital
sign documentation review in these hospitals as part of a thesis project.

3. TRIAL MANAGEMENT
3.1 Day-to-day management of the trial
The project manager will be responsible for day-day trial management, and will report to Dr Parshuram (PI)
and the Executive Steering Committee. At each hospital the site-investigator will work with the project
manager to formalize inter-institutional agreements, obtain ethics board approval and appoint the local sitecoordinator. In the first week of data collection the hospital randomization will occur. Web-based
randomization will be supervised by the statistician co-Investigator Dr. Willan. Site investigators and local
administrative leads will be notified of the result of randomization within 10 days of the start of data
collection.
The study co-ordinating center will be in the Center for Safety Research at the Hospital for Sick
Children, Toronto. The study staff (Project Manager, Research Assistants, and Bedside PEWS Educators, analyst, web
manager, statistician and students) will be housed within the offices of the Center, and supported by infrastructure
of the Child Health Evaluative Sciences Program of the Research Institute of the Hospital for Sick Children.
The Bedside PEWS Instructor Program sessions will be conducted within the SickKids Learning Institute,
and will use the tele-video-conference facilities of the Hospital.
3.2 Trial Administration
The trial administrative structure is comprised of the PI, the executive steering committee, site-investigator
co-applicants, and collaborators. The PI (Parshuram) will assume overall responsibility for the conduct of the
study, will supervise the central study team, and chair the executive steering committee. Dr Willan (statistician
and Senior Scientist of the Research Institute at the Hospital for Sick Children) will be responsible for the
analysis of the trial, and will create the report of the study results. Prior to the submission of this report to the
Executive Steering Committee, an independent statistician will review the primary data, analyses and the
report. The independent statistician will provide supplementary annotations as required. Upon receipt of the
report, the Executive Steering Committee will interpret the results and form a writing committee for
manuscript creation.
The Executive Steering Committee is comprised of Dr. Christopher S Parshuram who is also the
executive steering committee chair. The committee members are Dr. Ari Joffe, Dr. Andy Willan, Dr. Betsy
Hunt, Dr. Catherine Farrell, Dr. David Wensley, Dr. Jamie Hutchison, Dr. Jacques LaCroix, Ms. Karen
Dryden-Palmer, Dr. Martin Gray, Dr. Mark Helfaer, Dr. Patricia Parkin, Dr. Ron Gottesman and Dr. Vinay
Nadkarni.
The Site-Investigators will be directly responsible for conduct of the study at their hospital, including
working with the Project Manager to obtain research ethics approval, and to appoint, then support and
supervise the Site Coordinator throughout the study. Site investigators will be responsible for the integrity of
data from their hospital. In hospitals randomized to implement the Bedside PEWS, the site-investigator will
identify local educators and medical record administrators to the Bedside PEWS educators. They will
collaborate to customize the Bedside PEWS documentation record. The site-investigator will assist in
education of physicians at each site, and will help appoint the local Bedside PEWS Instructor who will assist
with implementation.
3.3 Trial steering committee and data safety and monitoring committee (DSMC)
The DSMC will be comprised of a three members: a statistician, a senior clinician-administrator, and a
clinician. After a brief teleconference meeting at the start of the study to establish internal process, the
DSMC’s role will be to review reports of study-associated adverse events provided by the Steering
Committee. The DSMC will convene to review an Executive Steering Committee report describing the first
18 months of the study.
Protocol 005 version date 23 February 2011

Page

17

Evaluating processes of care & the outcomes of children in hospital (EPOCH): a cluster randomized trial of
the Bedside Paediatric Early Warning System.
PI: Christopher Parshuram Research Protocol
The Executive Steering Committee will meet 6-12 times per year throughout the study to discuss and
resolve questions about the conduct of the study, to review site performance and (where required) will
suggest remediation strategies. The Executive Steering Committee will report study-related adverse events to
the DSMC. The Executive Steering Committee members have extensive practical and scientific expertise in
resuscitation science, research methods, large clinical trials, multi-center registry and database management,
program implementation and evaluation, biostatistics, health economics, health administration, guideline
development, critical care, hospital and community paediatric hospital medicine and have published original
research.1, 3, 4, 27, 36, 48, 49, 52, 58, 60-66 The steering committee is a strong collaboration of experienced resuscitation
scientists, methodologists, educators, clinicians and administrators. In collaboration with the Canadian Critical
Care Trials Group, and the clinicians and administrators of participating hospitals we have the expertise and
momentum to successfully complete this clinically focussed, policy-relevant clinical trial to improve the
outcomes of hospitalized children.

Protocol 005 version date 23 February 2011

Page

18

Evaluating processes of care & the outcomes of children in hospital (EPOCH): a cluster randomized trial of
the Bedside Paediatric Early Warning System.
PI: Christopher Parshuram Research Protocol
Table 1:
Scores and calling criteria to identify children at risk of near or actual cardiopulmonary arrest.
Origin

Description

Development

Bristol
2005

Expert opinion

Brighton
2005

10 triggers plus
+3 diagnosis
related criteria
+ staff concern
Score 0-11,
7 items

Toronto
2006

Score 0-26
9 static 7 dynamic

Melbourne
2006

8 triggers
+ concern

Cincinnati
2007

4 subjective
triggers
+ staff concern
+ parental
concern
8 subjective items
2 types of ‘arrest’
+ concern
Score 0-8
7 items

Baltimore
2008
Cardiff
2009
Bedside
PEWS
2009

ICU call
threshold
>1 criteria

AUC
ROC
0.52

Sens 99% Spec 63%
Expert opinion
(Tucker 2009)
Sens 71% Spec 91%
Delphi Consensus and
statistical item selection
Sens 78% Spec 95%
Expert opinion
No sens or specificity

Score > 5

Expert review of local
data
No sens or specificity

>1 criteria

Expert opinion

>1 criteria

No sens or specificity
Expert Consensus
Sens 70% Spec 90%

Score >2
suggested

0.53
Score > 5
0.87
>1 criteria
0.73

NA

Score 0-26
7 items

NA
0.62

Expert opinion,
Score > 8
statistical item
0.87
reduction
Sens 82% Spec 93%
Scores and calling criteria to identify children at risk for near and actual cardiopulmonary arrest. We evaluated
the objective components in the dataset describing the 2074 patients in 4 paediatric hospitals. Limitations of
the data to evaluate change of heart rate and respiratory rate more than 20 or 30 above ‘baseline’ were
operationalized by using the mean for all control and case patients in each age range (<3m, 3-12months, 1-4
years, 5-12 years, >12 years) and looking for deviation from this number. The range (maximum-minimum) of
the reported measurements of heart rate for each patient was more than 20 beats per minute in 86% of case
and 40% of control-patients, and the range was more than 30 beats per minute in 74% of case and 22% of
control patients. The range of reported Respiratory Rate Measurements was greater than 20 breaths per
minute in 57% of case and 7% of control patients, and was more than 30 breaths per minute in 34% of case
and 3% of control patients.
AUCROC= Area Under the Receiver Operating Characteristics Curve.

Protocol 005 version date 23 February 2011

Page

19

Evaluating processes of care & the outcomes of children in hospital (EPOCH): a cluster randomized trial of
the Bedside Paediatric Early Warning System.
PI: Christopher Parshuram Research Protocol
Table 2
Performance of the Bedside-PEWS score in 2074 hospitalized children
Patient
Category
All

Control patients

Case patients

N

N

Score Median
(IQR)
1388
2 (1-4)

686

Score Median
(IQR)
8 (5-12)

p
<.0001

AUCROC
(95%CI)
0.87 (0.85-0.89)

Urgent ICU
772
2 (1-4)
381
10 (7-13)
<.0001
0.92 (0.90-0.94)
Code Blue
616
2 (1-4)
305
6 (3-10)
<.0001
0.81 (0.78-0.84)
Age
<3 months
333
2 (1-4)
190
7 (4-10)
<.0001
0.83 (0.79-0.86)
3-<12 months
362
2 (1-4)
164
8 (6-11)
<.0001
0.86 (0.82-0.90)
1-<5 years
286
2 (1-4)
134
9 (5-13)
<.0001
0.90 (0.87-0.93)
5-12 years
221
2 (1-3)
110
10 (5-13)
<.0001
0.89 (0.84-0.93)
>12 years
186
3 (2-4)
88
11 (6-14)
<.0001
0.91 (0.87-0.95)
Hospital
1
658
2 (1-4)
324
9 (6-12)
<.0001
0.88 (0.85-0.90)
2
478
1 (1-3)
238
6 (4-9)
<.0001
0.89 (0.86-0.92)
3
164
5 (2-6)
80
12 (9-15.5)
<.0001
0.91 (0.87-0.95)
4
88
2 (1-3)
44
9 (4-12)
<.0001
0.89 (0.83-0.96)
Chronic Disease
Transplant
73
2 (1-3)
58
11 (7-12)
<.0001
0.94 (0.90-0.98)
Heart Disease
386
3 (2-5)
233
8 (6-11)
<.0001
0.84 (0.81-0.88)
Severe Cerebral
34
2 (1-4)
62
10 (7-13)
<.0001
0.92 (0.86-0.98)
Palsy
Medical Device
Tracheostomy
36
4 (1.5-5.5)
57
7 (4-11)
<.0001
0.76 (0.67-0.86)
Feeding Tube
112
3 (1-5)
138
10 (6-13)
<.0001
0.86 (0.82-0.91)
Home Oxygen
27
5 (2-7)
47
8 (6-11)
<.0001
0.79 (0.69-0.90)
Acute condition
Seizures>15
6
2 (2-4)
47
6 (3-10)
0.1146
0.74 (0.48-0.99)
min
Complexity
>3 services
136
3 (1-5)
164
9 (6-12)
<.0001
0.87 (0.83-0.91)
>10
109
3 (2-5)
162
10 (6-13)
<.0001
0.85 (0.81-0.90)
medications/day
Administrative
Recent primary
5
1 (0-2)
18
7 (3-8)
0.0040
0.89 (0.75-1.00)
service transfer
IQR= Interquartile range. The hospitals are Hospital for Sick Children, Birmingham Children’s Hospital,
Stollery Children’s Hospital and Ste. Justines Hospital. AUCROC= Area Under the Receiver Operating
Characteristics Curve.

Protocol 005 version date 23 February 2011

Page

20

Evaluating processes of care & the outcomes of children in hospital (EPOCH): a cluster randomized trial of
the Bedside Paediatric Early Warning System.
PI: Christopher Parshuram Research Protocol
Table 3
Systematic Review: methods to identify children at risk for near & actual cardiopulmonary arrest
In order to identify published scores and calling criteria not known to the applicants, we modified and reran the search used in the development of our original PEWS score with the assistance of an Academic
Librarian.
The following comprehensive search strategy was run in Ovid MEDLINE(R) 1950 to Present with Daily
Update (updated to September 8, 2009) using the following search terms. A total of 1,069 references were
retrieved.
Sour
Ovid MEDLINE(R) 1950 to Present with Daily Update
ce
Set #
1

2

3

4
5

History
(Early adj2 Warning adj2 (Score* or system* or
track* or trigger*)).ti,ab. or (pews or ews or
mews).ti,ab. or ((inhospital or "in-hospital") adj2
(cardiac or heart or cardiopulmonary or
respiratory) adj2 arrest:).ti,ab.
critical illness/ or critical care/ or severity of
illness index/ or diagnosis-related groups/ or
(severity adj 5 illness).ti,ab. or ((inhospital or "inhospital") adj2 (cardiac or heart or
cardiopulmonary or respiratory) adj2 arrest:).ti,ab.
emergency medical services/ or emergency
service, hospital/ or ((pediatric or paediatric) adj2
medical adj2 emergency adj2 (team or teams or
system* or service*)).ti,ab. or (rapid adj2
response).ti,ab.
1 or (2 and 3)
limit 4 to "all child (0 to 18 years)"

Comment
Early warning system textword terms

Subject heading and textword search
terms for patient population

Subject heading and textword search
terms for emergency response terms

Base search set
Age group limit

This search was re-run in the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews and identified 4 reviews, of which
one was relevant. Courtesy of Ms E Uleryk, Academic Librarian, Hospital Library, The Hospital for Sick
Children.
References were downloaded to Endnote (version X Thomson, www.endnote.com) and reviewed by the PI
(Parshuram). One additional reference describing the Brighton Score was identified. This was included in the
background review. Reference 102: Adshead and Thomson. Use of a paediatric early warning system in
emergency departments. 2009 Emergency Nurse Volume 17 (1) pages 22-25.

Protocol 005 version date 23 February 2011

Page

21

Evaluating processes of care & the outcomes of children in hospital (EPOCH): a cluster randomized trial of
the Bedside Paediatric Early Warning System.
PI: Christopher Parshuram Research Protocol
Table 4
Intervention Hospitals: Implementing the Bedside Paediatric Early Warning System:
Implementation will be conducted in 7 phases beginning with modifications of the system to comply with
local preferences and formal requirements, and culminating in clinical application. As we have conducted
previously.
# Phase
timeframe
1 Meeting Local
Documentation
Standards
4-8 months before
implementation

2 Matching the Score
Matched Care
Recommendations to
the local vernacular
4-8 months before
frontline staff
education
3 Bedside PEWS
Instructor Course
2-4 months before
frontline staff
education

4 Articulating the sitespecific plan
(Frontline staff
education & Clinical
implementation
1-3 months before
frontline staff
education

Description
Paper documentation: Modification to meet local requirements for paper
size, punched-hole placement, bar coding, hospital and patient identifiers,
certification that the quality of photocopied Bedside PEWS documentation
records meets local standards, certification of paper quality, and local
health-records approval.
Electronic health records (EHR) documentation: Modification of the
electronic format to meet local requirements for screen size and resolution,
local printing requirements (appearance, hospital logo/identifier, bar
coding), installation by local information services staff, including
establishment of the interface between existing EHR, pilot testing for
overall functionality, and local health-records approval. Implementing sites
with EHR will also develop an explicit plan for documentation during
‘down-time’ of the local electronic heath record.
Modification of the appropriate (community, referral hospital) scorematched care recommendations to the local vernacular. For example in a
hospital where the ICU team may be called ‘RACE’ the recommendations
would read ‘consider referral to the RACE team’.
Following local confirmation, the modified score-matched care
recommendations will be printed on the Bedside PEWS clipboards, pocket
cards and the documentation record (paper and electronic format).
Implementation teams from each implementing site, comprised of Nurse
Educators (or equivalents), and the physician lead will attend this 2-day
course conducted by the Bedside PEWS Educators and the PI, in the
Learning Institute at the Hospital for Sick Children (See letter of support).
The course objectives are:
[1] Demonstration of technical competence with the Bedside PEWS.
[2] Familiarity with the Bedside PEWS frontline education program and
materials.
[3] Description of the implementation environment and articulation of an
implementation plan customized to local requirements
[4] Establishment of a post-course timetable for weekly communication
with the Bedside PEWS Educators.
This written plan will be articulated by the site Bedside PEWS Instructors,
and will include:
[1] Schedules for meetings with frontline staff (formal, informal)
[2] Milestones for training (numbers of successfully trained individuals),
completion of initial training, and the date of clinical implementation.
[3] A post-implementation ‘maintenance’ strategy.
[4] A weekly reporting plan.
[5] Identification of the area in which the implementation run-in will
occur.

Protocol 005 version date 23 February 2011

Page

22

Evaluating processes of care & the outcomes of children in hospital (EPOCH): a cluster randomized trial of
the Bedside Paediatric Early Warning System.
PI: Christopher Parshuram Research Protocol
5 Frontline staff
education
Beginning 3 months
before run-in clinical
implementation

6 Run-in Clinical
Implementation
5 weeks before
Hospital-wide
implementation
7 Hospital-wide
Implementation

This 4 hour training session for frontline staff (registered nurses and
respiratory therapists) will be scheduled over the 3 months preceding
clinical implementation. Each session will include 2 hours of small-group
(6-8 person per educator) education sessions, and 2 hours of interactive use
of the Bedside PEWS documentation record.
Physicians will attend a 90 minute session explaining the Bedside PEWS
and its clinical application. Sessions will be conducted by the Bedside
PEWS Instructors, and the Physician Site Lead.
Implementation will occur in a pre-identified ward area with 20 or more
beds. This focussed implementation will begin 5 weeks before hospital-wide
implementation. This focussed implementation will provide local
experience, identification of implementation challenges, and pre-emptive
application of solutions gathered from the experience locally, of the Bedside
PEWS team, and of other sites.
The go-live date will be approved by hospital administrative and clinical
leads and will be supported by the Bedside PEWS educator team. A
teleconference will be scheduled one week after implementation to discuss
the first week of implementation, and for advice from the Bedside PEWS
team (Educators and PI). Each teleconference session will be recorded for
later review.

Protocol 005 version date 23 February 2011

Page

23

Evaluating processes of care & the outcomes of children in hospital (EPOCH): a cluster randomized trial of
the Bedside Paediatric Early Warning System.
PI: Christopher Parshuram Research Protocol
Table 5
Secondary Outcomes: Clinical Deterioration Events & Significant Clinical Deterioration Events
(SCDE)
Definition
SCDE
<60ml/kg intravenous or intraosseous fluid resuscitation given in the No
12 hours before transfer, No intravenous or intra-osseous inotrope or
Vasoactive medications and no Positive Pressure Ventilation (Bagmask or Endotracheal) in the 12 hours before transfer.
[2] Intermediate
[2] Non-Invasive Respiratory = Positive pressure ventilation in the 12 No
Transfer
hours before transfer, but not intubated at the time of transfer. This
category includes children receiving mask delivered Positive Airway
Pressure at any stage in the 12 hours before transfer and at the time of
transfer. Mechanical ventilation during anaesthesia for a scheduled
procedure is not included.
[3] Respiratory = intubated and, or receiving endotracheal ventilation Yes
[3]
at the time of transfer, or intubated within one hour of PICU
admission.
[4] Circulatory = >60ml/kg intravenous or intraosseous fluid
Yes
[4]
resuscitation given in the 12 hours before transfer, and administration
of any intravenous or intra-osseous inotrope or vasopressor18
administered at the time of transfer or at any stage in the 12 hours
preceding transfer. Patients in this category can include positive
pressure ventilation [2].
[5] Late Transfer
Respiratory [3] and Circulatory [4] support before transfer.
Yes
[6] Cardiopulmonary Chest compressions before transfer from ward area or within one
Yes
Resuscitation
hour of PICU admission or ECMO instituted before or within one
hour of PICU admission.
[7] Death
Death on an inpatient ward, other than in those patients with DNR
Yes
orders. Death may occur despite CPR (or intention to perform CPR if
patient is pronounced dead without CPR). No transfer from ward
area.
Transfer is when a patient is urgently transferred to a paediatric intensive care unit (PICU) in the
participating hospital. The time of transfer is the arrival in the PICU. Urgent means departure from the
inpatient ward in <6 hours from the time the transfer was initiated. When a patient is urgently admitted from
an eligible hospital ward to a PICU via a procedure in the OR, the time of transfer to ‘PICU’ is regarded as
beginning at the time of transfer (departure from the inpatient ward) to the operating room. Treatments other
than cardiopulmonary resuscitation provided in the operating room are not included in the calculation of the
Clinical Deterioration Event. Unexpected events occurring in the operating room that require post-operative
/ post-anaesthetic care in the PICU, in patients who were not anticipated to require PICU will at the time the
patient was transferred from the inpatient ward will not be regarded as clinical deterioration events.
A PICU is defined as an area with dedicated facilities for mechanical ventilation, circulatory support and
invasive circulatory and respiratory monitoring (for example with arterial and central venous pressure
monitoring). Other areas designated for patients of increased acuity, such as ‘constant observation’ or ‘high
dependency’ or ‘step-down’ units will be regarded as part of the PICU where the PICU staff physicians are
wholly or jointly responsible for the care of children in these areas (can write orders in the chart). Routinely
admitted patients will include children outside the neonatal period who are <12 years of age at admission.
ECMO is Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenator Therapy.
[1]

Early Transfer

Protocol 005 version date 23 February 2011

Page

24

Evaluating processes of care & the outcomes of children in hospital (EPOCH): a cluster randomized trial of
the Bedside Paediatric Early Warning System.
PI: Christopher Parshuram Research Protocol
Table 6
Abstraction to evaluate the potential preventability of cardiac arrest.
Age
Diagnoses
Primary and Secondary

In months if less than 1 year, otherwise in years
Diagnoses represent active problems or a treated problem.
Primary = the main diagnosis
Secondary = clinically relevant but less relevant than the overarching main
diagnosis.
See Case Report form

Severity of Illness

1 home oxygen
2 tracheostomy
3 percutaneous – enteral feeding tube
4 permanent vascular access central line
5 permanent vascular access other than central line
6 Arterial line in-situ
7 PICU discharge (during this hospitalization) in last 2 days, >2 days or no
ICU admission during this hospitalization (includes NICU admission).
8 Length of hospital stay before event: <1 week, > 1 week
9 previous cardiac arrest (in this hospital admission).

Recent procedures

Procedures. (indicate all that apply)
In the last 7 days...
1 Cardiac – with cardiopulmonary bypass
2 Cardiac – without cardiopulmonary bypass
2 Cardiac – catherization
3 Vascular (includes major endvascular procedures, open surgery)
4 Vascular – insertion / removal of permanent vascular access
5 Central Nervous System
6 Spinal / other neurologic-orthopaediac surgery
7 Craniofacial
8 Orthopaedic (not spinal)
9 Ear Nose and Throat
10 Thoracic (not cardiac or vascular)
11 Abdominal surgery
12 Dental
13 Plastic / Cutaneous and, or muscular
14 Opthalmologic Surgery

Acute Problems

A Free Text Primary Procedure
B Free Text Secondary Procedure 1
C Free Text Secondary Procedure 2
1 Seizures
2 CNS other
3 ENT
4 Respiratory

Protocol 005 version date 23 February 2011

Page

25

Evaluating processes of care & the outcomes of children in hospital (EPOCH): a cluster randomized trial of
the Bedside Paediatric Early Warning System.
PI: Christopher Parshuram Research Protocol
5 Circulatory
6 Renal
7 Hepatic
A Free Text description
Medications
Vital Signs

Respiratory
Intervention
Circulatory
Intervention

Investigations

Radiology

List of medications given in the 25 hours before the event and the hour in
which they were administered.
From 13 hours before event until time of event: Documented
Heart Rate, Respiratory Rate, Systolic Blood Pressure, Diastolic blood
pressure, Trans-cutaneous oxygen Saturation, Capillary Refill Time,
Respiratory Effort, Temperature, Level of Consciousness (Glasgow Coma
Scale, Comfort scale) pupil size.
From 13 hours before event until time of event: Documented
Oxygen therapy
Nebulized therapy
Positive pressure ventilation
From 13 hours before event until time of event: Documented
Intravenous Fluid therapy (total fluids input) expressed in ml /kg averaged
over each hour
Transfusion
VasoActive Agents (as yes / no) : Dopamine, Milrinone, Amrinone,
NorEpinephrine, Epinephrine, Prostaglandin
Urinary output
Two most recent sets of blood results if drawn in the last 48 hours.
For each of the following laboratory investigations: we will record the value
[a] closest to 48 hrs before and >24 hours before
[b] closest to 12 hrs before AND <24 h & >12 h before event
[c] closest to one hr before AND <12 h & >1hr before event
[d] number of tests of the specified type assessed <24 h & >1 h before event
[e] are relevant upper and lower limit of normal for the test
Inflammatory Markers: C-Reactive Protein, Erythrocyte Sedimentation Rate,
Procalcitonin.
Full Blood count: Haemoglobin, White Cell Count, Bands, Platelet Count
Electrolytes: Sodium, Potassium, Calcium (total), Calcium Ionized, Magnesium
Blood Gas arterial: PaO2, PaCO2, HCO3 (measured, calculated), pH.
Blood Gas mixed venous: PaO2, PaCO2, HCO3 (measured, calculated), pH.
Metabolic: Ammonia, Lactate (not peripheral) Glucose,
Liver Tests: Aspartate and Alanine Aminotransferase, Bilirubin (conjugated,
and un-conjugated), Lactate Dehydrogenase, International Normalized Ratio
(INR), Partial Prothrombin Time.
Chest XRay in 48 hours before event: not done / new or worsening infiltratesabnormality / unchanged / normal.
Neuroimaging in 48 hours before event: not done / lesion new or expanding /
normal / unchanged
Echocardiogram in 48 hours before event: not done / deteriorating cardiac
function / improving cardiac function / normal function / unchanged.

Protocol 005 version date 23 February 2011

Page

26

Evaluating processes of care & the outcomes of children in hospital (EPOCH): a cluster randomized trial of
the Bedside Paediatric Early Warning System.
PI: Christopher Parshuram Research Protocol
Infection

Other relevant data

From samples taken in the 96 hours before event:
Confirmed Positive Blood Culture: Yes / no and list organism
Positive Microbiologic Specimen from other site
1 CNS
2 Respiratory Tract
3 Urine
4 Drain – other (specified)
Confirmed positive cultures are judged not to be contaminants by the
reporting site investigator.
Short < 300 word summary (clinical data referenced to event time, no patient
identifiers)

Legend
Items to be documented for clinical deterioration events that include a cardiac arrest (scale rating 4 or 5).
After abstraction items will be reviewed by the site investigator, and submitted anonymously to the data coordinating center. The data will then be presented in a standard format – including the use of the Bedside
PEWS documentation record – for evaluation of preventability by a multi-disciplinary adjudication panel.

Protocol 005 version date 23 February 2011

Page

27

Evaluating processes of care & the outcomes of children in hospital (EPOCH): a cluster randomized trial of
the Bedside Paediatric Early Warning System.
PI: Christopher Parshuram Research Protocol
Table 7
Preventability criteria
Ratin
Category
g
1
Virtually no evidence of preventability
2
Slight to modest evidence of preventability
3
Preventability not quite likely (less than 50/50, but “close call”)
4
Preventability more than likely (more than 50/50, but “close call”)
5
Strong evidence of preventability
6
Virtually certain evidence of preventability
Legend
Preventability criteria, as used in the Canadian Adverse Events Study. A rating of 4 or more was regarded as a
high degree of preventability.126

Appendices

1 Power & Sample Size
2 Case Report Form- see separate attachment

Protocol 005 version date 23 February 2011

Page

28

Evaluating processes of care & the outcomes of children in hospital (EPOCH): a cluster randomized trial of
the Bedside Paediatric Early Warning System.
PI: Christopher Parshuram Research Protocol

Power & Sample Size Appendix
Power Calculations were determined using Hayes RJ, Bennett S: Simple sample size calculation for clusterrandomized trials. Int J Epidemiol 1999; 28: 319-26. Reference 129.
[1] All Cause Hospital Mortality
Baseline rate data are presented from participating hospital. We estimate that this study will have sufficient
power to demonstrate 18% relative risk reductions in all cause mortality this corresponds to an absolute risk
reduction of 0.9%.
Baseline Data
Participating Paediatric Hospital
All Cause Mortality
/ 1000 discharges
The Hospital for Sick Children
2.17
BC Children's Hospital
5.0
John Hopkins Hospital
5.08
Stollery Children's Hospital
6.8
St Justine Children's Hospital
2.1
McMaster Hospital
8.4
Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario
7.22
Centre Mere-Enfant du CHUQ
2.07
London Health Sciences Center
6.98
South Eastern Ontario Health Sciences Centre
7.0
St George's Hospital
Children's Medical Center Dallas
IWK Health Centre
Alberta Children's Hospital
Overall Average Rate

4.46
6.5
2.31
5.4
5.11

Reference: Feudtner 2009 (Reference #108)
8 year cohort
Pennsylvania hospitals from 1994-2001
[includes Referral and Community Hospitals]
678,365 subjects
2,202 deaths during hospitalization

3.2

Analytic Method: Logistic regression
Relative Risk
Baseline Rate
Reduction
0.178
5.1 / 1000 discharges.
0.199
3.2 / 1000 discharges
Assumptions: n=20 hospitals: alpha=0.05, z=1.96, power=80%, average bed size=119.85, length of stay=4,
0.90 average occupancy, k=0.15.

Protocol 005 version date 23 February 2011

Page

29

Evaluating processes of care & the outcomes of children in hospital (EPOCH): a cluster randomized trial of
the Bedside Paediatric Early Warning System.
PI: Christopher Parshuram Research Protocol
[2] Significant Clinical Deterioration Events in four major paediatric referral hospitals in 2007-8
Hospital
Admissions
PICU Beds
PICU Discharges
Unplanned PICU
Admits

55963

62
7300
1052
N
14.5%
/PICU Discharges
18
/1000 Hospital Discharges
PICU Mortality
65
N
following Unplanned
6.2%
/Unplanned Discharges
Admits
1.2
/1000 Hospital Discharges
Total Code Blue
150
N
Events
3
/1000 Hospital Discharges
0.75
/1000 Patient Days
Data are from The Ontario Paediatric Critical Care Response Team Collaborative report (Kotsakis 2009).
They represent 2 years of data from the four largest paediatric referral hospitals in Ontario. In the two years
following 31 January 2007, there were 55963 Hospital Discharges, 1052 Urgent PICU admissions, and 150
Code Blue events (after the introduction of MET-RRT at each site). ICU mortality was overall 6.2% following
urgent ICU admission – lower than the 15.1% in our single center data from an earlier era.
Assuming an average hospital length of stay of 4 days (397,556 patient days /99,389 discharges – data from
participating referral hospitals), we estimate a rate of SCDE of 2/1000 patient days. With 20 sites we will be
able to show a 31% reduction in significant clinical deterioration events (80% power, alpha=0.05, k= 0.15).
This corresponds to an absolute risk reduction of 0.62 events per 1000 patient days.
[3] Code Blue Events
These immediate calls for medical assistance from a resuscitation team occur at a rate of 0.75/1000 Patient
Days. With this rate the maximum relative risk reduction that can be shown with 20 referral hospitals is 0.41
(alpha=0.05, z=1.96, power=80%, an average bed size of 119.85, a length of stay of 4, k=0.15.) This is an
absolute risk reduction of 0.3/1000 events per thousand patient days.
[4] Stat Calls
Method: Poisson regression
Preliminary Data 8.13 stat calls per 1000 patient days at the Hospital for Sick Children. The maximum relative
risk reduction that can be shown is 0.181 (alpha=0.05, z=1.96, power=80%, an average bed size of 119.85, a
length of stay of 4, k=0.15, n=20, baseline rate=8.13 per 1000 patient days). This corresponds to an absolute
risk reduction of 1.45 calls per thousand patient days.

Protocol 005 version date 23 February 2011

Page

30

Evaluating processes of care & the outcomes of children in hospital (EPOCH): a cluster randomized trial of
the Bedside Paediatric Early Warning System.
PI: Christopher Parshuram Research Protocol
References
1.
Nadkarni VM, Larkin GL, Peberdy MA, et al. First documented rhythm and clinical outcome from inhospital cardiac arrest among children and adults. JAMA 2006;295:50-7.
2.
Reis AG, Nadkarni V, Perondi MB, Grisi S, Berg RA. A prospective investigation into the
epidemiology of in- hospital pediatric cardiopulmonary resuscitation using the international Utstein reporting
style. Pediatrics 2002;109:200-9.
3.
Doherty DR, Parshuram CS, Gaboury I, et al. Hypothermia therapy after pediatric cardiac arrest.
Circulation 2009;119:1492-500.
4.
de Mos N, van Litsenburg RR, McCrindle B, Bohn DJ, Parshuram CS. Pediatric in-intensive-care-unit
cardiac arrest: incidence, survival, and predictive factors. Crit Care Med 2006;34:1209-15.
5.
Ebrahim S, Hutchison J, Parshuram C. Neurocognitive and Quality of Life Outcomes Following InHospital Resuscitation. In: Pediatric Academic Societies Annual Meeting. Baltimore, MD.: Pediatric Academic
Societies; 2009.
6.
Parshuram CS. Risk-adjusted intensive care unit outcomes and admission from our backyard*. Pediatr
Crit Care Med 2008;9:118-9.
7.
VandenBerg SD, Hutchison JS, Parshuram CS. A cross-sectional survey of levels of care and response
mechanisms for evolving critical illness in hospitalized children. Pediatrics 2007;119:e940-6.
8.
Parshuram CS, Hutchison J, Middaugh K. Development and initial validation of the Bedside
Paediatric Early Warning System score. Crit Care 2009;13:R135.
9.
Wilson RM, Runciman WB, Gibberd RW, Harrison BT, Newby L, Hamilton JD. The Quality in
Australian Health Care Study. Med J Aust 1995;163:458-71.
10.
Vincent C, Neale G, Woloshynowych M. Adverse events in British hospitals: preliminary
retrospective record review. BMJ 2001;322:517-9.
11.
Thomas EJ, Studdert DM, Burstin HR, et al. Incidence and types of adverse events and negligent care
in Utah and Colorado. Med Care 2000;38:261-71.
12.
Leape LL, Brennan TA, Laird N, et al. The nature of adverse events in hospitalized patients. Results
of the Harvard Medical Practice Study II. N Engl J Med 1991;324:377-84.
13.
Adverse Events in New Zealand Public Hospitals: Principal Findings from a National Survey. 2001.
(Accessed May, 2004, at
14.
Brennan TA, Leape LL, Laird NM, et al. Incidence of adverse events and negligence in hospitalized
patients. Results of the Harvard Medical Practice Study I. N Engl J Med 1991;324:370-6.
15.
Duncan H, Hutchison J, Parshuram CS. The pediatric early warning system score: A severity of illness
score to predict urgent medical need in hospitalized children. J Crit Care 2006;21:271-8.
16.
Suominen P, Olkkola KT, Voipio V, Korpela R, Palo R, Rasanen J. Utstein style reporting of inhospital paediatric cardiopulmonary resuscitation. Resuscitation 2000;45:17-25.
17.
Tibballs J, Kinney S, Duke T, Oakley E, Hennessy M. Reduction of paediatric in-patient cardiac arrest
and death with a medical emergency team: preliminary results. Arch Dis Child 2005;90:1148-52.
18.
Gillis J, Dickson D, Rieder M, Steward D, Edmonds J. Results of inpatient pediatric resuscitation. Crit
Care Med 1986;14:469-71.
19.
Meert KL, Donaldson A, Nadkarni V, et al. Multicenter cohort study of in-hospital pediatric cardiac
arrest. Pediatr Crit Care Med 2009.
20.
Bloom AA, Wright JA, Morris RD, Campbell RM, Krawiecki NS. Additive impact of in-hospital
cardiac arrest on the functioning of children with heart disease. Pediatrics 1997;99:390-8.
21.
Schindler MB, Bohn D, Cox PN, et al. Outcome of out-of-hospital cardiac or respiratory arrest in
children. N Engl J Med 1996;335:1473-9.
22.
Lundgren-Nilsson A, Rosen H, Hofgren C, Sunnerhagen KS. The first year after successful cardiac
resuscitation: function, activity, participation and quality of life. Resuscitation 2005;66:285-9.
Protocol 005 version date 23 February 2011

Page

31

Evaluating processes of care & the outcomes of children in hospital (EPOCH): a cluster randomized trial of
the Bedside Paediatric Early Warning System.
PI: Christopher Parshuram Research Protocol
23.
van Litsenburg R, de Mos N, Edgell D, Gruenwald C, Bohn DJ, Parshuram CS. Resource use and
health outcomes of paediatric extracorporeal membrane oxygenation. Arch Dis Child Fetal Neonatal Ed
2005;90:F176-F7.
24.
Angus DC, Black N. Improving care of the critically ill: institutional and health-care system
approaches. Lancet 2004;363:1314-20.
25.
Bell CM, Redelmeier DA. Mortality among patients admitted to hospitals on weekends as compared
with weekdays. N Engl J Med 2001;345:663-8.
26.
Goldfrad C, Rowan K. Consequences of discharges from intensive care at night. Lancet
2000;355:1138-42.
27.
Peberdy MA, Ornato JP, Larkin GL, et al. Survival from in-hospital cardiac arrest during nights and
weekends. Jama 2008;299:785-92.
28.
Wu AW, Folkman S, McPhee SJ, Lo B. Do house officers learn from their mistakes? JAMA
1991;265:2089-94.
29.
Cioffi J. Nurses' experiences of making decisions to call emergency assistance to their patients. J Adv
Nurs 2000;32:108-14.
30.
Franklin C, Mathew J. Developing strategies to prevent inhospital cardiac arrest: analyzing responses
of physicians and nurses in the hours before the event. Crit Care Med 1994;22:244-7.
31.
Hodgetts TJ, Kenward G, Vlachonikolis IG, Payne S, Castle N. The identification of risk factors for
cardiac arrest and formulation of activation criteria to alert a medical emergency team. Resuscitation
2002;54:125-31.
32.
Kause J, Smith G, Prytherch D, Parr M, Flabouris A, Hillman K. A comparison of antecedents to
cardiac arrests, deaths and emergency intensive care admissions in Australia and New Zealand, and the United
Kingdom--the ACADEMIA study. Resuscitation 2004;62:275-82.
33.
Sax FL, Charlson ME. Medical patients at high risk for catastrophic deterioration. Crit Care Med
1987;15:510-5.
34.
Schein RM, Hazday N, Pena M, Ruben BH, Sprung CL. Clinical antecedents to in-hospital
cardiopulmonary arrest. Chest 1990;98:1388-92.
35.
Parshuram C, Duncan H, Hutchison J, Parkin P, Beyene J. Urgent Hospital admission from Hospital
Wards: the impact of Code Blue. In: 5th World Congress on Pediatric Critical Care. Geneva, Switzerland:
World Federation of Pediatric Intensive and Critical Care Societies; 2007.
36.
Leteurtre S, Martinot A, Duhamel A, et al. Validation of the paediatric logistic organ dysfunction
(PELOD) score: prospective, observational, multicentre study. Lancet 2003;362:192-7.
37.
Meaney PA, Nadkarni VM, Cook EF, et al. Higher survival rates among younger patients after
pediatric intensive care unit cardiac arrests. Pediatrics 2006;118:2424-33.
38.
Cashman JN. In-hospital cardiac arrest: what happens to the false arrests? Resuscitation 2002;53:2716.
39.
Quality Initiatives: Right Care Right Now. Society of Critical Care Medicine, 2010. (Accessed 22 Feb
2010, 2010, at
http://www.sccm.org/Professional_Development/Quality_Initiatives/Pages/Right_Care_Right_Now.aspx.)
40.
Ruttimann UE, Patel KM, Pollack MM. Length of stay and efficiency in pediatric intensive care units.
J Pediatr 1998;133:79-85.
41.
Pollack MM, Patel KM, Ruttimann UE. The Pediatric Risk of Mortality III--Acute Physiology Score
(PRISM III-APS): a method of assessing physiologic instability for pediatric intensive care unit patients. J
Pediatr 1997;131:575-81.
42.
Slater A, Shann F. The suitability of the Pediatric Index of Mortality (PIM), PIM2, the Pediatric Risk
of Mortality (PRISM), and PRISM III for monitoring the quality of pediatric intensive care in Australia and
New Zealand. Pediatr Crit Care Med 2004;5:447-54.
43.
Slater A, Shann F, Pearson G. PIM2: a revised version of the Paediatric Index of Mortality. Intensive
Care Med 2003;29:278-85.
Protocol 005 version date 23 February 2011

Page

32

Evaluating processes of care & the outcomes of children in hospital (EPOCH): a cluster randomized trial of
the Bedside Paediatric Early Warning System.
PI: Christopher Parshuram Research Protocol
44.
Pearson GA, Stickley J, Shann F. Calibration of the paediatric index of mortality in UK paediatric
intensive care units. Arch Dis Child 2001;84:125-8.
45.
Aylin P, Bottle A, Elliott P, Jarman B. Surgical mortality: Hospital episode statistics v central cardiac
audit database. Bmj 2007;335:839; author reply -40.
46.
Jarman B, Gault S, Alves B, et al. Explaining differences in English hospital death rates using
routinely collected data. Bmj 1999;318:1515-20.
47.
Canadian Institute for Health Information. HSMR: A New Approach for Measuring Hospital
Mortality Trends in Canada. In. Ottawa: Canadian Institute for Health Information; 2007.
48.
Lacroix J, Hebert PC, Hutchison JS, et al. Transfusion strategies for patients in pediatric intensive care
units. N Engl J Med 2007;356:1609-19.
49.
Hutchison JS, Ward RE, Lacroix J, et al. Hypothermia therapy after traumatic brain injury in children.
N Engl J Med 2008;358:2447-56.
50.
Zaritsky A, Nadkarni V, Getson P, Kuehl K. CPR in children. Ann Emerg Med 1987;16:1107-11.
51.
Morris MC, Wernovsky G, Nadkarni VM. Survival outcomes after extracorporeal cardiopulmonary
resuscitation instituted during active chest compressions following refractory in-hospital pediatric cardiac
arrest. Pediatr Crit Care Med 2004;5:440-6.
52.
Samson RA, Nadkarni VM, Meaney PA, Carey SM, Berg MD, Berg RA. Outcomes of in-hospital
ventricular fibrillation in children. N Engl J Med 2006;354:2328-39.
53.
Berg MD, Nadkarni VM, Berg RA. Cardiopulmonary resuscitation in children. Curr Opin Crit Care
2008;14:254-60.
54.
Moler FW, Meert K, Donaldson AE, et al. In-hospital versus out-of-hospital pediatric cardiac arrest: a
multicenter cohort study. Crit Care Med 2009;37:2259-67.
55.
Nance ML, Nadkarni VM, Hedrick HL, Cullen JA, Wiebe DJ. Effect of preextracorporeal membrane
oxygenation ventilation days and age on extracorporeal membrane oxygenation survival in critically ill
children. J Pediatr Surg 2009;44:1606-10.
56.
Sutton RM, Niles D, Nysaether J, et al. Quantitative Analysis of CPR Quality During In-Hospital
Resuscitation of Older Children and Adolescents. Pediatrics 2009.
57.
Topjian AA, Nadkarni VM, Berg RA. Cardiopulmonary resuscitation in children. Curr Opin Crit Care
2009;15:203-8.
58.
Perondi MB, Reis AG, Paiva EF, Nadkarni VM, Berg RA. A comparison of high-dose and standarddose epinephrine in children with cardiac arrest. N Engl J Med 2004;350:1722-30.
59.
Srinivasan V, Morris MC, Helfaer MA, Berg RA, Nadkarni VM. Calcium use during in-hospital
pediatric cardiopulmonary resuscitation: a report from the National Registry of Cardiopulmonary
Resuscitation. Pediatrics 2008;121:e1144-51.
60.
McIntyre LA, Fergusson DA, Hebert PC, Moher D, Hutchison JS. Prolonged therapeutic
hypothermia after traumatic brain injury in adults: a systematic review. Jama 2003;289:2992-9.
61.
Hunt EA, Schwartz JM, Fackler JC. Surfactant and pediatric acute lung injury. Jama 2005;294:898-9;
author reply 9.
62.
Hazinski MF, Nadkarni VM, Hickey RW, O'Connor R, Becker LB, Zaritsky A. Major changes in the
2005 AHA Guidelines for CPR and ECC: reaching the tipping point for change. Circulation 2005;112:IV20611.
63.
Kattwinkel J, Niermeyer S, Nadkarni V, et al. Resuscitation of the newly born infant - An advisory
statement from the Pediatric Working Group of the International Liaison Committee on Resuscitation.
Circulation 1999;99:1927-38.
64.
Nadkarni V, Hazinski MF, Zideman D, et al. Pediatric resuscitation - An advisory statement from the
Pediatric Working Group of the International Liaison Committee on Resuscitation. Circulation 1997;95:218595.
65.
Nadkarni V, Quan L, Hazinski MF, et al. Public access defibrillation. Circulation 1996;94:2320-1.
Protocol 005 version date 23 February 2011

Page

33

Evaluating processes of care & the outcomes of children in hospital (EPOCH): a cluster randomized trial of
the Bedside Paediatric Early Warning System.
PI: Christopher Parshuram Research Protocol
66.
Peberdy MA, Cretikos M, Abella BS, et al. Recommended guidelines for monitoring, reporting, and
conducting research on medical emergency team, outreach, and rapid response systems: an Utstein-style
scientific statement: a scientific statement from the International Liaison Committee on Resuscitation
(American Heart Association, Australian Resuscitation Council, European Resuscitation Council, Heart and
Stroke Foundation of Canada, InterAmerican Heart Foundation, Resuscitation Council of Southern Africa,
and the New Zealand Resuscitation Council); the American Heart Association Emergency Cardiovascular
Care Committee; the Council on Cardiopulmonary, Perioperative, and Critical Care; and the Interdisciplinary
Working Group on Quality of Care and Outcomes Research. Circulation 2007;116:2481-500.
67.
Yannopoulos D, Aufderheide TP, Gabrielli A, et al. Clinical and hemodynamic comparison of 15:2
and 30:2 compression-to-ventilation ratios for cardiopulmonary resuscitation. Crit Care Med 2006;34:1444-9.
68.
Hunt EA, Walker AR, Shaffner DH, Miller MR, Pronovost PJ. Simulation of in-hospital pediatric
medical emergencies and cardiopulmonary arrests: highlighting the importance of the first 5 minutes.
Pediatrics 2008;121:e34-43.
69.
Morris MC, Nadkarni VM, Ward FR, Nelson RM. Exception from informed consent for pediatric
resuscitation research: community consultation for a trial of brain cooling after in-hospital cardiac arrest.
Pediatrics 2004;114:776-81.
70.
Kattwinkel J, Niermeyer S, Nadkarni V, et al. ILCOR advisory statement: Resuscitation of the newly
born infant - An advisory statement from the Pediatric Working Group of the International Liaison
Committee on Resuscitation. Pediatrics 1999;103:E561-E5613.
71.
Donoghue AJ, Nadkarni VM, Elliott M, Durbin D. Effect of hospital characteristics on outcomes
from pediatric cardiopulmonary resuscitation: a report from the national registry of cardiopulmonary
resuscitation. Pediatrics 2006;118:995-1001.
72.
Braga MS, Dominguez TE, Pollock AN, et al. Estimation of optimal CPR chest compression depth in
children by using computer tomography. Pediatrics 2009;124:e69-74.
73.
Hillman K, Chen J, Brown D. A clinical model for Health Services Research-the Medical Emergency
Team. J Crit Care 2003;18:195-9.
74.
Hillman K, Parr M, Flabouris A, Bishop G, Stewart A. Redefining in-hospital resuscitation: the
concept of the medical emergency team. Resuscitation 2001;48:105-10.
75.
Bellomo R, Goldsmith D, Uchino S, et al. A prospective before-and-after trial of a medical emergency
team. Med J Aust 2003;179:283-7.
76.
Buist MD, Moore GE, Bernard SA, Waxman BP, Anderson JN, Nguyen TV. Effects of a medical
emergency team on reduction of incidence of and mortality from unexpected cardiac arrests in hospital:
preliminary study. BMJ 2002;324:387-90.
77.
DeVita MA, Braithwaite RS, Mahidhara R, Stuart S, Foraida M, Simmons RL. Use of medical
emergency team responses to reduce hospital cardiopulmonary arrests. Qual Saf Health Care 2004;13:251-4.
78.
Daly FF, Sidney KL, Fatovich DM. The Medical Emergency Team (MET): a model for the district
general hospital. Aust N Z J Med 1998;28:795-8.
79.
Bristow PJ, Hillman KM, Chey T, et al. Rates of in-hospital arrests, deaths and intensive care
admissions: the effect of a medical emergency team. Med J Aust 2000;173:236-40.
80.
Salamonson Y, Kariyawasam A, van Heere B, O'Connor C. The evolutionary process of Medical
Emergency Team (MET) implementation: reduction in unanticipated ICU transfers. Resuscitation
2001;49:135-41.
81.
Parr MJ, Hadfield JH, Flabouris A, Bishop G, Hillman K. The Medical Emergency Team: 12 month
analysis of reasons for activation, immediate outcome and not-for-resuscitation orders. Resuscitation
2001;50:39-44.
82.
Hillman K, Chen J, Cretikos M, et al. Introduction of the medical emergency team (MET) system: a
cluster-randomised controlled trial. Lancet 2005;365:2091-7.

Protocol 005 version date 23 February 2011

Page

34

Evaluating processes of care & the outcomes of children in hospital (EPOCH): a cluster randomized trial of
the Bedside Paediatric Early Warning System.
PI: Christopher Parshuram Research Protocol
83.
Brilli RJ, Gibson R, Luria JW, et al. Implementation of a medical emergency team in a large pediatric
teaching hospital prevents respiratory and cardiopulmonary arrests outside the intensive care unit. Pediatr Crit
Care Med 2007;8:236-46; quiz 47.
84.
Sharek PJ, Parast LM, Leong K, et al. Effect of a rapid response team on hospital-wide mortality and
code rates outside the ICU in a Children's Hospital. JAMA 2007;298:2267-74.
85.
Hunt EA, Zimmer KP, Rinke ML, et al. Transition from a traditional code team to a medical
emergency team and categorization of cardiopulmonary arrests in a children's center. Arch Pediatr Adolesc
Med 2008;162:117-22.
86.
Tibballs J, Kinney S. Reduction of hospital mortality and of preventable cardiac arrest and death on
introduction of a pediatric medical emergency team. Pediatr Crit Care Med 2009;10:306-12.
87.
Zenker P, Schlesinger A, Hauck M, et al. Implementation and impact of a rapid response team in a
children's hospital. Joint Commission journal on quality and patient safety / Joint Commission Resources
2007;33:418-25.
88.
Priestley G, Watson W, Rashidian A, et al. Introducing Critical Care Outreach: a ward-randomised
trial of phased introduction in a general hospital. Intensive Care Med 2004;30:1398-404.
89.
Feudtner C, Hays RM, Haynes G, Geyer JR, Neff JM, Koepsell TD. Deaths attributed to pediatric
complex chronic conditions: national trends and implications for supportive care services. Pediatrics
2001;107:E99.
90.
Monaghan A. Detecting and managing deterioration in children. Paediatric Nursing 2005;17:32–5.
91.
Edwards ED, Powell CV, Mason BW, Oliver A. Prospective cohort study to test the predictability of
the Cardiff and Vale paediatric early warning system. Arch Dis Child 2009;94:602-6.
92.
Haines C, Perrott M, Weir P. Promoting care for acutely ill children-development and evaluation of a
paediatric early warning tool. Intensive Crit Care Nurs 2006;22:73-81.
93.
Tucker KM, Brewer TL, Baker RB, Demeritt B, Vossmeyer MT. Prospective evaluation of a pediatric
inpatient early warning scoring system. J Spec Pediatr Nurs 2009;14:79-85.
94.
Fraser DD, Singh RN, Frewen T. The PEWS score: potential calling criteria for critical care response
teams in children's hospitals. J Crit Care 2006;21:278-9.
95.
McGaughey J, Alderdice F, Fowler R, Kapila A, Mayhew A, Moutray M. Outreach and Early Warning
Systems (EWS) for the prevention of intensive care admission and death of critically ill adult patients on
general hospital wards. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2007:CD005529.
96.
Winberg H, Nilsson K, Aneman A. Paediatric Rapid Response Systems: a literature review. Acta
Anaesthesiol Scand 2008;52:890-6.
97.
Chan PS, Jain R, Nallmothu BK, Berg RA, Sasson C. Rapid Response Teams: A Systematic Review
and Meta-analysis. Arch Intern Med 2010;170:18-26.
98.
Edelson DP. A weak link in the rapid response system. Arch Intern Med 2010;170:12-3.
99.
Cuthbertson BH, Boroujerdi M, McKie L, Aucott L, Prescott G. Can physiological variables and early
warning scoring systems allow early recognition of the deteriorating surgical patient? Crit Care Med
2007;35:402-9.
100. Smith GB, Prytherch DR, Schmidt PE, Featherstone PI, Higgins B. A review, and performance
evaluation, of single-parameter "track and trigger" systems. Resuscitation 2008;79:11-21.
101. Smith GB, Prytherch DR, Schmidt PE, Featherstone PI. Review and performance evaluation of
aggregate weighted 'track and trigger' systems. Resuscitation 2008;77:170-9.
102. Adshead N, Thomson R. Use of a paediatric early warning system in emergency departments. Emerg
Nurse 2009;17:22-5.
103. Your Guide to the International Liaison Committee on Resuscitation (ILCOR). 2009. (Accessed
August 24, 2009, at http://www.americanheart.org/presenter.jhtml?identifier=3052119.)
104. Soar J, Deakin CD, Nolan JP, et al. European Resuscitation Council guidelines for resuscitation 2005.
Section 7. Cardiac arrest in special circumstances. Resuscitation 2005;67 Suppl 1:S135-70.
Protocol 005 version date 23 February 2011

Page

35

Evaluating processes of care & the outcomes of children in hospital (EPOCH): a cluster randomized trial of
the Bedside Paediatric Early Warning System.
PI: Christopher Parshuram Research Protocol
105. Postovsky S, Levenzon A, Ofir R, Ben Arush MW. "Do not resuscitate" orders among children with
solid tumors at the end of life. Pediatr Hematol Oncol 2004;21:661-8.
106. Yun YH, Lim MK, Choi KS, Rhee YS. Predictors associated with the place of death in a country with
increasing hospital deaths. Palliat Med 2006;20:455-61.
107. Higginson IJ, Thompson M. Children and young people who die from cancer: epidemiology and place
of death in England (1995-9). BMJ 2003;327:478-9.
108. Feudtner C, Hexem KR, Shabbout M, Feinstein JA, Sochalski J, Silber JH. Prediction of pediatric
death in the year after hospitalization: a population-level retrospective cohort study. J Palliat Med
2009;12:160-9.
109. Hays RM, Valentine J, Haynes G, et al. The Seattle Pediatric Palliative Care Project: effects on family
satisfaction and health-related quality of life. J Palliat Med 2006;9:716-28.
110. Feudtner C, Feinstein JA, Satchell M, Zhao H, Kang TI. Shifting place of death among children with
complex chronic conditions in the United States, 1989-2003. JAMA 2007;297:2725-32.
111. Vickers J, Thompson A, Collins GS, Childs M, Hain R. Place and provision of palliative care for
children with progressive cancer: a study by the Paediatric Oncology Nurses' Forum/United Kingdom
Children's Cancer Study Group Palliative Care Working Group. J Clin Oncol 2007;25:4472-6.
112. Gries CJ, Curtis JR, Wall RJ, Engelberg RA. Family member satisfaction with end-of-life decision
making in the ICU. Chest 2008;133:704-12.
113. Jarman B, Bottle A, Aylin P, Browne M. Monitoring changes in hospital standardised mortality ratios.
Bmj 2005;330:329.
114. Aylin P, Bottle A, Jarman B, Elliott P. Paediatric cardiac surgical mortality in England after Bristol:
descriptive analysis of hospital episode statistics 1991-2002. Bmj 2004;329:825.
115. Jarman B, Aylin P, Bottle A. Trends in admissions and deaths in English NHS hospitals. Bmj
2004;328:855.
116. Chen J, Flabouris A, Bellomo R, Hillman K, Finfer S. The Medical Emergency Team System and notfor-resuscitation orders: results from the MERIT study. Resuscitation 2008;79:391-7.
117. Berg MD, Nadkarni VM, Zuercher M, Berg RA. In-hospital pediatric cardiac arrest. Pediatr Clin
North Am 2008;55:589-604, x.
118. Garros D, Rosychuk RJ, Cox PN. Circumstances surrounding end of life in a pediatric intensive care
unit. Pediatrics 2003;112:e371.
119. Pierucci RL, Kirby RS, Leuthner SR. End-of-life care for neonates and infants: the experience and
effects of a palliative care consultation service. Pediatrics 2001;108:653-60.
120. Devictor D, Latour JM, Tissieres P. Forgoing life-sustaining or death-prolonging therapy in the
pediatric ICU. Pediatr Clin North Am 2008;55:791-804, xiii.
121. Truog RD. Is it always wrong to perform futile CPR? N Engl J Med 2010;362:477-9.
122. Brennan TA, Gawande A, Thomas E, Studdert D. Accidental deaths, saved lives, and improved
quality. N Engl J Med 2005;353:1405-9.
123. Hayward RA, Hofer TP. Estimating hospital deaths due to medical errors: preventability is in the eye
of the reviewer. Jama 2001;286:415-20.
124. Hofer TP, Bernstein SJ, DeMonner S, Hayward RA. Discussion between reviewers does not improve
reliability of peer review of hospital quality. Med Care 2000;38:152-61.
125. Caplan RA, Posner KL, Cheney FW. Effect of outcome on physician judgments of appropriateness of
care. JAMA 1991;265:1957-60.
126. Baker GR, Norton PG, Flintoft V, et al. The Canadian Adverse Events Study: the incidence of
adverse events among hospital patients in Canada. CMAJ 2004;170:1678-86.
127. Davis P, Lay-Yee R, Briant R, Ali W, Scott A, Schug S. Adverse events in New Zealand public
hospitals I: occurrence and impact. N Z Med J 2002;115:U271.
128. Slater A. Monitoring outcome in paediatric intensive care. Paediatr Anaesth 2004;14:113-6.
Protocol 005 version date 23 February 2011

Page

36

Evaluating processes of care & the outcomes of children in hospital (EPOCH): a cluster randomized trial of
the Bedside Paediatric Early Warning System.
PI: Christopher Parshuram Research Protocol
129. Leteurtre S, Duhamel A, Grandbastien B, Lacroix J, Leclerc F. Paediatric logistic organ dysfunction
(PELOD) score. Lancet 2006;367:897; author reply 900-2.
130. Hayes RJ, Bennett S. Simple sample size calculation for cluster-randomized trials. International journal
of epidemiology 1999;28:319-26.
131. Campbell MK, Elbourne DR, Altman DG. CONSORT statement: extension to cluster randomised
trials. Bmj 2004;328:702-8.

Protocol 005 version date 23 February 2011

Page

37

