                                            CALGB 70807



Studies on blood and tissue (includes genetic studies):
Blood: Study researchers would like to collect additional samples of your blood. The researchers
would like to conduct other studies on carotenoid and cholesterol levels in your blood. Also, they
would like to investigate whether substances in your blood (sometimes called tumor markers) are
related to the way that your body responds or doesn't respond to changes in your diet.

In addition to the studies on carotenoid and cholesterol levels, researchers wish to determine whether
there is a relationship between genes and the severity of your disease. In order to study genes, the
DNA must be removed from your blood sample. DNA is the substance that makes up your genes.
Genes are the units of inheritance that are passed down from generation to generation. They are
responsible for eye color, hair color, blood type, and hundreds of other traits.

If you agree to these additional studies, about 4 teaspoons of additional blood would be collected at
the beginning of the study and then about 2 teaspoons of blood would be collected 12 and 24 months
after you start the study.

Tissue: A section of the material from the prostate biopsy that was used to diagnose your prostate
cancer was reviewed by the study pathologist to confirm that you had cancer. Study researchers
would also like to test additional sections of this tissue from this prostate biopsy to look at tissue
tumor markers. Investigators want to look at how the tumor is growing, if some hormones were
present, and to examine genetic activity in your biopsy tissue. No extra prostate biopsies would be
needed for these extra tissue studies. Tissue would be used from your prostate biopsies already done
as part of the main study.

About genetic studies:
New scientific tools will now allow researchers to look at your whole DNA, not just one part or one
gene. This kind of research can provide information to researchers about the development of cancer
and response to treatment. It can also provide information about a variety of other conditions and
diseases, including heart disease, diabetes and Alzheimer’s disease.

Because the information gained in these genetic studies can be very useful to the research
community, the National Institutes of Health (NIH) has requested that these data be placed in a
central database housed at the NIH. The goal is to speed up the process for discovery of new
treatments, prevention and diagnosis of disease. Researchers must get approval from the NIH before
they can access the research results and health-related information from your specimen. All
information will be coded with a unique number. Researchers will not have access to your identity;
they will only see coded information.

The greatest risk to you is the release of information from your health records. We will do our best to
make sure that your personal information will be kept private. The chance that this information will
be given to someone is very small. Below are some of the steps we have taken to protect your
privacy and confidentiality:




Version Date 09/26/18                                                                        Update #10
                                                  55
