                                             CALGB 70807


           Instructions for the collection of samples are included below. Please be sure to use a
           method of shipping that is secure and traceable. Extreme heat precautions should be
           taken when necessary.
           Shipment on Monday through Friday by overnight service to assure receipt is encouraged.
           If shipping on Friday, FedEx or UPS must be used and the air bill must be marked “For
           Saturday delivery.” Do not ship specimens on Saturdays.
           All specimens should be sent to the following address:
                                         Alliance Biorepository at Ohio State University
                                         The Ohio State University
                                         Innovation Centre
                                         2001 Polaris Parkway
                                         Columbus, OH 43240
                                         Tel: 614-293-7073
                                         Fax: 614-293-7967

       6.2.1   Submission of H&E stained prostate biopsy slides (required for all patients)
                Pathology specimens will be collected with a minimum of 10 tissue cores obtained
                utilizing a standard, extended biopsy pattern for confirmation of prostate pathology.
                Prostate biopsy slides will be submitted at baseline and 24 months.
                Additional biopsies: If, at the discretion of the treating physician, a patient
                undergoes additional prostate biopsies at a time other than 24 months, the prostate
                biopsy slides from these additional prostate biopsies should be submitted as well.
                Representative stained hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) diagnostic slides from each
                biopsy site/container are to be submitted to the Alliance Biorepository at Ohio
                State University for review. The pre-registration sample should be from the initial
                biopsy showing diagnosis of cancer. Submission of paraffin embedded tissue blocks is
                not required. Submission of the local pathology report is required. The local pathology
                report should contain the number of cores obtained for each biopsy to allow central
                verification that t 10 cores were obtained for each biopsy.
                Biopsy slides will be reviewed by Dr. Donna Hansel at UC San Diego. The Alliance
                Biorepository at Ohio State University will scan the slides and upload the images to a
                website and Dr. Hansel will review the scanned images. She will forward her
                evaluation to the Alliance Statistics and Data Center.
                If H&E stained slides are not available for submission, digital images may be
                submitted. Please contact Dr. Hansel for further instructions.

        6.2.2 Plasma samples (required for all patients)
                Throughout all stages of blood processing, shipping, and handling, it is very
                important to prevent prolonged exposure of samples and separated blood components
                to light. Work quickly and efficiently. When samples and sample components must be
                set aside, cover them or put them away from light.
                First prepare the vacutainer tubes for protection from light by wrapping aluminum
                foil around the tube prior to filling it or putting it in a red or amber colored specimen
                bag.
                Draw 10 mL of whole blood in a green top (heparin coagulant) tube and gently invert
                it once or twice to mix the additive with the blood. Immediately replace the tube into
                the previously prepared aluminum foil slip or place it into the red or amber colored
                specimen bag.
                Samples should be processed within 30 minutes of collection. If this is not possible,
                the tube(s) should be refrigerated until centrifugation. Before centrifugation, make
                sure the brake is off, the speed is set between 2,800 – 3,000 rpm, the temperature is
                4q to 8q C and the centrifugation time is set at 10 minutes.


Version Date 09/26/18                                                                          Update #10
                                                   20
