                                            CALGB 70807


           Anxiety reduction is a legitimate and robust outcome variable and a potential benefit of
           the counseling intervention. Moreover, it is likely that the distribution of printed dietary
           guidelines and intermittent phone calls to monitor diet intake, would potentially diminish
           anxiety in the control group because it involves more attention than active surveillance
           patients normally receive as part of clinical care (72).

    9.4    International Prostate Symptom Score (IPSS)
           This is an 8-item scale, widely used in clinical practice, which measures lower urinary
           tract symptoms. It includes questions encompassing incomplete bladder emptying,
           frequent urination, urgency, nocturia, intermittency, weak stream, straining, and quality
           of life related to urinary symptoms (73).
           There are robust data to suggest that prostate cancer patients on active surveillance
           experience significantly decreased urinary health relative to men without prostate cancer.
           In a cohort analysis of 6,000 community dwelling older men, we observed that compared
           to men without prostate cancer, men with prostate cancer on active surveillance (i.e.
           those who had not undergone treatment) reported a significantly diminished quality of life
           due to urinary symptoms (74). In addition, several published studies have noted that high
           vegetable diets and higher serum carotenoid concentration are associated with decreased
           urinary symptoms (75-77).

    9.5    Expanded Prostate Cancer Composite Index 26 (EPIC-26)
           This instrument is an abbreviated version of the Expanded Prostate Cancer Composite
           Index (EPIC). It contains 26 questions focusing on 5 distinct health-related quality of life
           domains relevant to prostate cancer: urinary incontinence, urinary irritation/obstruction,
           bowel, sexual and vitality/hormonal. Each domain has function and other subdomains.
           All of the domains for EPIC-26 are reported using a 0-100 score, with higher scores
           representing favorable health related quality of life. The EPIC-26 demonstrates robust
           consistency and validity for measuring these important outcomes related to prostate
           cancer survivorship (78).




Version Date 09/26/18                                                                        Update #10
                                                  31
