                                            CALGB 70807


                  between the two treatment arms. If any interaction terms are significant, then we
                  will fit a regression model within each arm to develop a prediction model based on
                  the biomarkers for each treatment arm.
                  In order to investigate the prediction power of the fitted model using the gradient
                  lasso in Section 10.4.4.5, a Cox regression will be conducted including the risk
                  score fitted using the gradient lasso method, treatment allocation and their
                  interaction term.

11.0 STATISTICAL CONSIDERATIONS
11.1    Randomization
           Patients will be randomized with equal probability to receive the dietary intervention
           (experimental arm) or dietary information (control arm). A total of 464 patients will be
           enrolled to this trial, 232 patients per arm. The study will take a total of 5 years: about 3
           years of accrual with an expected accrual rate of 15 patients per month, and 2 years of
           follow-up for each patient.
           Stratification factors: Randomization will be stratified by age (” 70 years vs. !\Hars),
           race (African American vs. Other) and baseline prostate biopsy (0-12 months prior to
           UHJLVWUDWLRQYV!-24 months prior to registration).
11.2    Design
           Each patient will be followed for 24 months, and PSA will be evaluated every 3 months
           starting from baseline. Prostate biopsies are taken at baseline and 24 months.
           The primary outcome of interest in this prevention trial is disease progression defined by
           (a) PSA doubling time (PSADT) < 3 years, (b) PSA • 10 at any time, or (c) Gleason sum on
           repeat bLRSV\•IRUPHQ\RXQJHUWKDQ\HDUVDQG• IRUPHQ\HDUVRUROGHU
           These criteria are drawn from one of the largest active surveillance studies to date, the
           Toronto cohort (12). Data from this cohort indicate that approximately 20% of patients on
           active surveillance will progress by these criteria: 14% by PSA doubling time and 8%-10%
           by Gleason score.
           Thus, using the log-rank test with a two-sided D = 5%, a sample size of 418 will provide
           80% power to detect a difference in progression rate (PGR) of 20% in the control and 10%
           in the experimental arm during 24 months of follow-up. Under the exponential
           distributions for the time to progression, the 2-year PGR of 20% vs. 10% corresponds to a
           hazard ratio (HR) of 2.118. Assuming 10% of dropout rate (including patients who are
           treated before progression), a total of 464 patients will be enrolled to this trial.
           Centralized pathology review will be conducted on the tissue specimens of the first 50
           patients. From an analysis of grading by community vs. Johns Hopkins pathologists,
           Gleason grading of adenocarcinoma in prostate needle biopsy tissue (106), Gleason score
           was changed from 3+4 by community review to 4+3 by Johns Hopkins review for about
           14% of men and from 6 or below to 7 or above for about 8% of men. Assuming about 30%
           RIPHQLQWKLVVWXG\ZLOOEH!\HDUVROGDQGWKHVHWZRW\SHVRIFKDQJHVRFFXUXQLIRUPO\
           over the whole range of age, we believe that no more than 10% of men will become
           ineligible for the study by the centralized pathology review. We will consider increasing
           the sample size by a maximum of 10% depending on the proportion of men who become
           ineligible by central pathology review.

    11.3 Analysis
           The proportion of men who become ineligible by central pathology review will be estimated
           for each arm. The primary analysis will be done using data from eligible subjects,
           especially using Gleason scores from central review. However, all statistical analyses will
           be conducted for the data sets from eligible patients only, as well as all patients
           randomized in the sensitivity analysis.
           Progression: PSADT will be calculated as log2 divided by the slope (the least squares
           estimator) of log (PSA) observations over time using all available PSA measurements,
           starting from the time point at which we have three PSA measurements (i.e. the first

Version Date 09/26/18                                                                         Update #10
                                                  38
