3. A significant newer body of literature has been published which necessitates a reexamination
of recommendations, guidelines, and policies regarding HMVs, BPAPs, and CPAPs. Such
evidence synthesis can assist patients, family members, clinicians, professional societies, and
policy makers regarding prescription and use of HMVs and BPAPs.
The objectives of this systematic review are to evaluate: 1) medical criteria to direct the use of
HMV, BPAP, and CPAP in home settings; 2) the effect of these devices on patient outcomes and
related equipment settings; and 3) respiratory services and support required for delivering
HMVs, BPAPs, and CPAP at the home setting.
II. The Key Questions
During Topic Refinement, we developed the Key Questions (KQs) with input from Key
Informants (KIs), Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) and the public (drafted
KQs were posted for public comment from November 3rd, 2017 to November 17th, 2017). The
following are the KQs to be studied by the review:
KQ1. What are the patient characteristics and/or laboratory criteria and/or target level
measurable improvements considered for the initiation and continuation of noninvasive
positive pressure ventilation supplied by a Home Mechanical Ventilator (HMV), Bilevel
Positive Airway Pressure device (BPAP), and Continuous Positive Airway Pressure device
(CPAP) in the home through a noninvasive interface for the population of patients with
chronic respiratory failure due to neuromuscular diseases, thoracic restrictive diseases,
chronic obstructive pulmonary diseases (COPD), or other lung diseases (cystic fibrosis,
bronchiectasis)?
a. What are the patient characteristics and/or laboratory criteria and/or target level
measurable improvements (e.g. reduction in hypercapnia) considered for the initiation
and continuation of noninvasive positive pressure mechanical ventilation supplied by a
HMV through a noninvasive interface in the home?
b. What are the patient characteristics and/or laboratory criteria and/or target level
measurable improvements (e.g. reduction in hypercapnia) considered for the initiation
and continuation of noninvasive positive pressure ventilation supplied as a BPAP through
a noninvasive interface in the home?
c. What are the patient characteristics and/or laboratory criteria and/or target level
measurable improvements (e.g. reduction in hypercapnia) considered for the initiation
and continuation of noninvasive positive pressure ventilation supplied as a CPAP through
a noninvasive interface in the home?

