observational studies, we will select appropriate items from the Newcastle-Ottawa Scale.16
Additional criteria will be adopted from other quality appraisal tools if deemed appropriate.
Data Synthesis - We will qualitatively summarize key features/characteristics (e.g. study
populations, design, intervention, outcomes, device model, equipment parameters, and
conclusions) of the included studies and present in evidence tables for each KQs.
We will determine whether meta-analysis is appropriate (i.e., more than 2 studies address the
same PICOTS and provide point estimates and dispersion measures) to quantitatively
summarize study findings based on the similarities of PICOTS presented by the studies. If
meta-analysis is deemed appropriate, we plan to use the DerSimonian and Laird random
effect method to combine direct comparisons between treatments if the number of studies
included in the analysis is larger than 1817; otherwise, the DerSimonian and Laird random
effect method with the Knapp and Hartung adjustment of the variance will be adopted18. We
will evaluate heterogeneity between studies using I2 indicator. To further explore
heterogeneity, we plan to conduct subgroup analyses based on factors listed in Section II. We
will conduct sensitivity analyses to evaluate robustness of our findings by excluding studies
with high risk of bias.
We will evaluate potential publication bias by evaluating funnel plots symmetry and using
statistical tests such as Egger linear regression test if the number of studies included in a
direct comparison is large (n>=20).
Grading the Strength of Evidence (SOE) for Major Comparisons and Outcomes
We will grade the strength of the body of evidence as per the EPC methods guide on
assessing the strength of evidence. We will grade the strength of evidence for the outcomes
we classified as most important or critical such as mortality, hospitalization, outpatient visits.
These outcomes are chosen because they are either clinically important from a patient’s
perspective or highly relevant for CMS’s decision making.
Grading the SOE will be done for each comparison and for each outcome. Randomized trials
start as high strength of evidence and observational studies start as low strength of evidence.
The domains to be used for all KQs will be: the methodological limitations of the studies
(i.e., risk of bias); precision (based on the size of the body of evidence, number of events, and
confidence intervals); directness of the evidence to the KQs (focusing on whether the
outcomes were important to patients vs surrogates); consistency of results (based on
qualitative and statistical approaches to evaluate for heterogeneity); and the likelihood of
reporting and publication bias.
We will lower SOE grading when sensitivity analyses 1) show substantial difference in
estimates derived from high or unclear risk of bias studies vs. estimates derived from studies
at low risk of bias; or 2) when all the available studies (in a particular comparison) have high
or unclear risk of bias. SOE grading will be also lowered when important heterogeneity is
identified.
Based on this assessment and the initial study design, we will assign a strength of evidence
rating as high, moderate, low, or ‘insufficient evidence to estimate an effect’. We will
produce summary of evidence tables that will provide for each comparison and for each

