KQ2. In each of the above groups, what is the effect of HMV, a BPAP, or a CPAP use on patient
outcomes, including mortality, hospitalization, admission/readmission to intensive care unit
(ICU), need for intubation, outpatient visits, emergency room visits, disease exacerbations,
quality of life (QoL), activities of daily living (ADL), dyspnea, sleep quality, exercise
tolerance, and adverse events?
KQ3. What are the equipment parameters that are used in each of the above groups?
a. What are the parameters of ventilator usage (e.g. mode as determined by trigger, control
and cycling variables)?
b. What are the equipment parameters that are necessary to achieve desired outcomes (e.g.
flow capabilities, settings, etc.)?
c. What are the parameters of prescribed patient usage (e.g. frequency of use, duration of use
throughout the day, other)?
d. In each of the above populations, what are the parameters of patient compliance with the
prescribed usage of the equipment?
KQ4. What respiratory services, other than the technical support of the use of the prescribed
equipment, are being provided to the above patients in the home (e.g. patient education,
ongoing smoking cessation, respiratory therapist led home care)?
KQ5. What are the professional guidelines and statements which address KQ 1 to KQ 4?
Population, Interventions, Comparators, Outcomes, Timings, and Settings (PICOTS)
x

Population(s)
o Adults 18 years and older with chronic respiratory failure due to:
ƒ Neuromuscular diseases
ƒ Thoracic restrictive diseases (including thoracic cage abnormalities and
morbid obesity)
ƒ Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease,
ƒ Other lung diseases (cystic fibrosis, bronchiectasis)

x

Interventions
o Home mechanical ventilators (FDA-approved only) with or without pertinent
ancillary in-home services (e.g. respiratory therapy in the home; pharmacy
reconciliation; smoking cessation, etc.)
o BPAP respiratory assist devices (FDA-approved only) w/ or w/o pertinent
ancillary in-home services

