If deemed to be feasible and safe, long term use of HMVs and BPAPs is preferred in the home
setting compared to other settings such as intensive care units (ICUs), ventilator weaning units,
or long-term care hospitals. Home use has been associated with lower costs, greater
independence, increased quality of life, decreased risk of hospital-acquired infections, and
increased space for other acute care patients in acute care facilities.2-4 The number of patients
using long-term HMVs are growing.5
Failing to adequately treat chronic respiratory failure in patients who require a ventilator with the
appropriate features of an appropriate mechanical ventilator device could potentially result in
sudden or gradual hypoxemia and/or hypercarbia. These physiologic aberrations may result in
several adverse outcomes that include, but are not limited to: death, respiratory arrest, need for
emergency room evaluation, need for hospital admission, need for the intensive care unit
admission, need for intubation, deterioration of health, hypersomnolence, and poor quality of
life.1, 6
Selecting the most appropriate respiratory device to use for an individual patient is of highest
importance. Determining the need for a HMV versus BPAP versus CPAP is complex and may
differ based on several important patient level and device level factors such as the underlying
disease, interface required (a tight fitting removable mask versus a mouthpiece attachment), type
of ventilatory support required, duration of ventilatory support needed per day, and required
equipment characteristics
Currently, substantial variability exists regarding the usage, prescribing patterns, policies, and
guidelines for HMVs versus BPAPs versus CPAPs.7, 8 This variability exists, even when
accounting for variability in underlying disease processes and severity of chronic respiratory
failure. While a number of guidelines address the uses of BPAPs and HMVs in the home for
different disease conditions, there is marked variability in the conclusions, recommendations,
and evidence basis for such guidelines.9-12 Many guidelines may address home BPAP usage and
other guidelines may address HMV usage, few guidelines address the intricacies of choosing one
versus the other. With the current levels of practice variability, and unclear guidelines, there is a
clear need to synthesize the best available evidence to clinically guide prescribing of HMVs,
BPAPs, and CPAPs.13 Several challenges contribute to this variability.
1. There is considerable overlap regarding the technical features of HMVs and BPAPs. While
HMVs traditionally provided volume targeted ventilation using an invasive tracheostomy
interface and BPAPs provided pressure targeted ventilation using a mask interface, the FDA
has approved HMVs which can provide pressure targeted ventilation using a mask interface
and BPAPs which can be used with an invasive tracheostomy interface.
2. There is considerable variability regarding the continuum of severity of chronic respiratory
failure. Depending on the severity of illness, patients with chronic hypercapnic respiratory
failure may require no ventilatory support, intermittent ventilatory support (during variable
lengths of time at night or day or both), or continuous ventilatory support.

