Key Informants must disclose any financial conflicts of interest greater than $5,000 and any
other relevant business or professional conflicts of interest. Because of their role as end-users,
individuals are invited to serve as Key Informants and those who present with potential conflicts
may be retained. The AHRQ Task Order Officer (TOO) and the EPC work to balance, manage,
or mitigate any potential conflicts of interest identified.
IX. Technical Experts
Not applicable
X. Peer Reviewers
Peer reviewers are invited to provide written comments on the draft report based on their clinical,
content, or methodological expertise. The EPC considers all peer review comments on the draft
report in preparation of the final report. Peer reviewers do not participate in writing or editing of
the final report or other products. The final report does not necessarily represent the views of
individual reviewers. The EPC will complete a disposition of all peer review comments. The
disposition of comments for systematic reviews and technical briefs will be published three
months after the publication of the evidence report.
Potential Peer Reviewers must disclose any financial conflicts of interest greater than $5,000 and
any other relevant business or professional conflicts of interest. Invited Peer Reviewers may not
have any financial conflict of interest greater than $5,000. Peer reviewers who disclose potential
business or professional conflicts of interest may submit comments on draft reports through the
public comment mechanism.
XI. EPC Team Disclosures
EPC core team members must disclose any financial conflicts of interest greater than $1,000 and
any other relevant business or professional conflicts of interest. Related financial conflicts of
interest that cumulatively total greater than $1,000 will usually disqualify EPC core team
investigators.
XII. Role of the Funder
This project was funded under Contract No. 290-2015-00013-I from the Agency for Healthcare
Research and Quality, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The AHRQ Task Order
Officer reviewed contract deliverables for adherence to contract requirements and quality. The
authors of this report are responsible for its content. Statements in the report should not be
construed as endorsement by the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality or the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services.
XIII. Registration
This protocol is registered in the international prospective register of systematic reviews
(PROSPERO) with the following identification number: CRD42018085676.

