                            Supplemental Online Content



Garrison SR, Bakal JA, Kolber MR, et al. Antihypertensive medication timing and
cardiovascular events and death: the BedMed randomized clinical trial. JAMA. Published
online May 12, 2025. doi:10.1001/jama.2025.4390



eAppendix. Supplemental administrative information and methods
eFigure 1. Location of participating medical clinics
eFigure 2. Medications in use at baseline
eFigure 3. Proportion of participants who withdrew or were lost to follow-up
eFigure 4. Adherence to allocation time at 6-months, by medication class
eTable 1. Study recruitment methods
eTable 2. Proportion of interviews completed online vs over the phone
eTable 3. Expanded baseline characteristics
eTable 4. Baseline characteristics of those completing the trial versus those
withdrawing or lost to follow-up
eTable 5. Baseline characteristics for those who did not complete follow-up and could
not be followed using administrative data, stratified by study allocation.
eTable 6. Medication use at 6-months
eTable 7. Compliance with allocation time over the duration of the trial
eTable 8. Success of once-daily medication changes at 6-months, along with reasons
for failure, by medication class
eTable 9. 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure monitoring results




This supplemental material has been provided by the authors to give readers additional
information about their work.




© 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data mining,
AI training, and similar technologies.
eAppendix. Supplemental administrative information and methods
        SECTION 1: BedMed Committees, Co-investigators, and Staff
Steering Team: Scott Garrison (Overall Principal Investigator), Jeffrey Bakal, Michael Kolber,
Christina Korownyk, Finlay McAlister, Raj Padwal, Michael Hill, G. Michael Allan

Patient-Partner Working Group: Mariann Rich, Jerry Scoular, Grant Geldart, David
Nichiporik, Christine Nichiporik, Darryl Trueman, Helle Tees, Gerry Robinson, Bruce Perry

Event Adjudication Committee: Jessica Kirkwood, Michael Kolber, Christina Korownyk, Lee
Green, Roni Kraut, Scott Garrison

Data and Safety Monitoring Board: Jim Wright (Chair), Tom Perry, Marco Perez, Benji
Heran, Mohamed Ben-Eltriki

Study Statisticians and Programmers: Jeffrey Bakal, Jack (Man Shun) Yeung, Grace (Ting)
Wang, Erik Youngson

Research Coordinators: Farah Campbell, Janis Cole, Nicole Olivier

Research Assistants: Michael Kelmer, Armine Gayayan, Ana Vucenovic, Nathan Archibald,
Dorna Sadeghi, Jeffrey Cheng, Kaylin Bechard, Yvonne Marcoux, Aanchal Saran, Ryan Kichuk,
Ife Odeleye, Geoffrey Charm, Antonia Chua, Cynthia Dimaano

Administrative Assistant: Jessica Kinsella

Local (Provincial) Principal Investigators:
British Columbia: Kim McGrail
Alberta: Scott Garrison
Saskatchewan: Cathy MacLean
Manitoba: Alexander Singer
Ontario: Braden O’Neill

Participating Medical Clinics
(rand = number of resulting randomizations, provider = number of family physicians or nurse
practitioners recruiting at that location)

ALBERTA
Banff: Bear Street Family Physicians (5 providers, 9 rand)
Beaumont: Beaumont Medical (7 providers, 21 rand)
Calgary: Aspen Medical Clinic (1 provider, 16 rand), Associate Clinic (3 provider, 21 rand),
Britannia Medical Clinic (1 provider, 3 rand), Crowfoot Village Family Practice (1 provider, 5 rand),
Cura Family Practice (3 provider, 27 rand), Dr. Cathryn Kuzyk (1 provider, 10 rand), Dr. Margaret
Churcher Professional Corporation (1 provider, 1 rand), East Calgary Health Centre (11 providers,


© 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data
mining, AI training, and similar technologies.
23 rand), Family Health Clinic (1 provider, 10 rand), Foothills Primary Care Centre (16 providers,
62 rand), Saluté Family Medicine (5 providers, 5 rand), Sheldon M Chumir Health Centre (25
providers, 118 rand), South Health Campus (9 providers, 36 rand), Southland Sports Medicine (1
provider, 2 rand), Sunridge Family Medicine Teaching Centre (12 providers, 42 rand), Symons
Valley First Care (7 providers, 49 rand), Valley Ridge Family Physicians (2 providers, 14 rand),
Valley View Family Practice (1 provider, 2 rand)
Camrose: Smith Clinic (1 provider, 34 rand)
Coaldale: Campbell Clinic Coaldale (1 provider, 2 rand)
Coronation: Coronation Medical Clinic (1 provider, 3 rand)
Drumheller: Riverside Medical Clinic (1 provider, 5 rand)
Edmonton: Alliant Medical Clinic (1 provider, 9 rand), Bearspaw Medical Clinic (1 provider, 1 rand),
Capilano Medical Centre (1 provider, 7 rand), Ermineskin Medical Clinic (4 providers, 33 rand),
Glenora Medical Clinic (4 providers, 21 rand), Glenwood Medical Clinic (1 provider, 4 rand),
Granville Medical Clinic (1 provider, 6 rand), Grey Nuns Family Medicine Centre (7 providers, 34
rand), Heritage Medical Clinic (3 providers, 34 rand), Heritage Village Medicentre (4 providers, 3
rand), Hope Medical Clinic (2 providers, 7 rand), Horizon Family Practice (1 provider, 7 rand), Justik
Medical Clinic (2 providers, 16 rand), Kaye Edmonton Clinic (11 providers, 85 rand), Links Clinic (1
provider, 5 rand), Lynnwood Centre (1 provider, 23 rand), MacEwan University Health Centre (5
providers, 6 rand), Magrath Medical Clinic (1 provider, 33 rand), Millcreek Medical Centre (1
provider, 0 rand), Misericordia Family Medicine Clinic (4 providers, 30 rand), New Foundation
Medical Centre (1 provider, 10 rand), Northeast Community Health Centre (7 providers, 16 rand),
Nova Medical Clinic (2 providers, 14 rand), Ottewell Medical Clinic (6 providers, 41 rand), Sage
Seniors Association (2 providers, 7 rand), Shifa Medical Clinic (5 providers, 6 rand), Southwell
Medical Centre (1 provider, 3 rand), Summers Medical Clinic (1 provider, 0 rand), The Allin Clinic (3
providers, 44 rand), Town Centre Family Clinic (1 provider, 9 rand)
Edson: Edson Medical Centre (1 provider, 7 rand)
Hinton: Hillcrest Medical Associates (2 providers, 11 rand)
Innisfail: Innisfail Medical Clinic (2 providers, 13 rand)
Lacombe: Mainstreet Medical Services (3 providers, 28 rand)
Leduc: Griffiths Medical Clinic (3 providers, 21 rand), LA Medical Clinic (2 providers, 13 rand)
Lethbridge: Campbell Clinic South (3 providers, 44 rand), Haig Clinic (2 providers, 29 rand),
Legacy Medical Centre (4 providers, 23 rand)
Manning: Manning Medical Clinic (2 providers, 11 rand)
Medicine Hat: Horsman Catherine Dr Professional Corporation (1 provider, 21 rand)
Okotoks: Foothills Family Practice (7 providers, 60 rand)
Peace River: Aspen Mile Medical Inc (3 providers, 1 rand), Peace River Medical Clinic (21
providers, 52 rand),
Ponoka: Battle River Medical Clinic (1 provider, 4 rand)
Red Deer: Hevloc Family Medical Clinic (1 provider, 0 rand), Waskasoo Medical Clinic (3
providers, 31 rand)
Rimbey: Rimbey Medical Clinic (1 provider, 15 rand)
Sherwood Park: Synergy Medical Clinic (11 providers, 159 rand)
Spruce Grove: Westgrove Clinic (12 providers, 57 rand)


© 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data
mining, AI training, and similar technologies.
St. Albert: Horizon Health Medical Clinic (2 providers, 11 rand), St. Albert Medical Clinic (7
providers, 28 rand)
Strathmore: Valley Medical Clinic (8 providers, 40 rand)
Sundre: Moose and Squirrel Medical Clinic (5 providers, 14 rand)
Sylvan Lake: Sylvan Family Health Centre (9 providers, 51 rand)
Taber: Coulee Medical Clinic (1 provider, 1 rand)
Three Hills: Kneehill Medical Clinic (6 providers, 31 rand)
Vulcan: Vulcan Medical Clinic (2 providers, 18 rand)
Wetaskiwin: Wetaskiwin Family Medical Practice (1 provider, 1 rand)
Whitecourt: Life Medical Clinic (2 providers, 13 rand)



BRITISH COLUMBIA

Chilliwack: Crossroads Family Practice (5 provider, 33 rand), Gaetz Family Practice (1 provider, 7
rand), The Young Clinic (6 providers, 62 rand)
Comox: Comox Medical Clinic (1 provider, 12 rand)
Courtenay: Fifth Street Family Practice (1 provider, 8 rand)
Cranbrook: Fisher Peak Family Practice (1 provider, 4 rand)
Fort St. John: Fort St. John Medical Clinic (1 provider, 5 rand)
Langley: Stephen M. Shore Family Practice Inc (1 provider, 10 rand)
Nanaimo: Medical Arts Centre (1 provider, 7 rand)
New Westminster: Care4You (1 provider, 10 rand), New Westminster Family Practice (3 providers,
30 rand)
Port Coquitlam: Wilson Centre Family Practice (12 providers, 95 rand)
Powell River: Harvie Medical Clinic (1 provider, 5 rand)
Richmond: Dr. Cheryl Nagle (1 provider, 12 rand), Dr. Leslie Cohen (1 provider, 17 rand), Well
Health Oval A Inc Medical Clinic (1 provider, 7 rand)
Smithers: Coho Clinic (3 providers, 4 rand)
Vancouver: Forward Care Medical Clinic (2 providers, 10 rand)


SASKATCHEWAN

Beechy: Beechy Primary Care Clinic (1 provider, 2 rand)
Kyle: Kyle Primary Care Clinic (1 provider, 3 rand)
Lucky Lake: Lucky Lake Primary Care Clinic (1 provider, 5 rand)
Regina: 5th Avenue Medical (1 provider, 1 rand), Northgate Medical Centre (1 provider, 0 rand)
Rosetown: Rosetown & District Primary Care Centre (1 provider, 4 rand)
Saskatoon: West Winds Primary Health Centre (17 providers, 34 rand), Willowgrove Medical Group
(1 provider, 7 rand)




© 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data
mining, AI training, and similar technologies.
MANITOBA

Winkler: CW Wiebe Medical Centre (1 provider, 5 rand)
Winnipeg: Access Winnipeg West (9 providers, 43 rand), Atlantic Medical Centre (1 provider, 1
rand), Concordia Health Associates (1 provider, 14 rand), Family Medical Centre (6 providers, 47
rand), Kildonan Medical Centre (7 providers, 24 rand), Meadowood Medical Centre (3 providers, 69
rand), Memorial Medical Clinic Inc (1 provider, 4 rand)

ONTARIO

Brantford: Avenue Medical Centre (1 provider, 0 rand)
Collingwood: Collingwood Medical Centre (1 provider, 10 rand)
Guelph: Dawson Road Family Medical Clinic (1 provider, 10 rand)
Hamilton: Dr. C Prangley Medicine Prof Corp (1 provider, 8 rand), Robert Kerr (1 provider, 4 rand)
North York: Bathurst Family Physicians (3 providers, 5 rand)
Ottawa: Advanced Access Medical Clinics (1 provider, 6 rand)
Richmond Hill: Wise Health Medical Center (1 provider, 2 rand)
Toronto: Duncan Family Docs (2 providers, 5 rand), Platinum Medical FHO (1 provider, 3 rand),
Prince Edward Medical (1 provider, 2 rand), Scarborough Health Network (1 provider, 2 rand)
Windsor: DeMarco and Associates (1 provider, 8 rand)




© 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data
mining, AI training, and similar technologies.
 SECTION 2: Administrative Health Data (ICD9/10) Outcome Definitions
Overview: The following describes the definitions used to screen for the occurrence of BedMed
outcomes in administrative health data in the 3 provinces (British Columbia, Alberta, Manitoba)
from which patient level data was available. Clinically, it is notable that the definitions for
glaucoma and dementia differ somewhat in that Manitoba (and not British Columbia / Alberta)
included dispensations of diagnosis defining medications in the outcome definition. For
glaucoma, this difference is likely immaterial as we only used administrative health claims
indications of glaucoma as a flag to seek information from the patient, and the primary care
provider, as to whether the patient had this diagnosis. For dementia, the difference is more
meaningful as (to avoid potentially upsetting participants) we accepted administrative claims
diagnoses of dementia without seeking corroboration from patients or primary care providers.
Hence a new diagnosis of dementia was more sensitively picked up in Manitoba, than in other
participating provinces. Manitoba also used ICD9 codes to detect fractures as many fractures
were believed to be managed in the community, or as outpatients.

ICD9/10 Codes used to detect outcomes in administrative health data
 Events          Definitions Used for       Definitions Used for           Definitions Used for
                 Alberta Data               British Columbia Data          Manitoba Data
 Acute           ICD10: I20%, I21%,         ICD10: I20%, I21%,             ICD10: I20%, I21%,
 Coronary        I22%, I24%                 I22%, I24%                     I22%, I24%
 Syndrome
 (ACS)           Note: ACS/MI               Note: ACS/MI                   Note: ACS/MI
 Hospitalization Hospitalization/ED visit:  Hospitalization/ED visit:      Hospitalization/ED visit:
 or ED visit     qualified by primary       qualified by primary           qualified by primary
                 diagnosis                  diagnosis                      diagnosis

 Stroke            ICD10: H34.1%,              ICD10: H34.1%,              ICD10: H34.1%,
 Hospitalization   I60%, I61%, I63%, I64%      I60%, I61%, I63%, I64%      I60%, I61%, I63%, I64%
 or ED visit
                   Note: Stroke                Note: Stroke                Note: Stroke
                   Hospitalization/ED visit:   Hospitalization/ED visit:   Hospitalization/ED visit:
                   qualified by primary        qualified by primary        qualified by primary
                   diagnosis                   diagnosis                   diagnosis

 Heart Failure     ICD10: I50%                 ICD10: I50%                 ICD10: I50%
 (HF)              Note: HF                    Note: HF                    Note: HF
 Hospitalization   Hospitalization/ED visit:   Hospitalization/ED visit:   Hospitalization/ED visit:
 or ED visit       qualified by primary        qualified by primary        qualified by primary
                   diagnosis                   diagnosis                   diagnosis




© 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data
mining, AI training, and similar technologies.
 Events           Definitions Used for        Definitions Used for        Definitions Used for
                  Alberta Data                British Columbia Data       Manitoba Data
 Hip Fracture     ICD10: S72.0%, S72.1%,      ICD10: S72.0%, S72.1%,      ICD10: S72.0%, S72.1%,
                  S72.2%                      S72.2%                      S72.2%
                                                                          ICD9: 820%
                                                                          Physician Billing Codes:
                                                                          • 0865 fractures, lower
                                                                          extremity, femur, neck,
                                                                          closed reduction, cast or
                                                                          traction
                                                                          • 0868 fractures, lower
                                                                          extremity, femur, neck,
                                                                          open reduction with
                                                                          internal fixation
                                                                          • 0870 fractures, lower
                                                                          extremity, femur, neck,
                                                                          prosthetic replacement
                                                                          • 0872 fractures, lower
                                                                          extremity,
                                                                          intertrochanteric, closed
                                                                          reduction
                                                                          • 0874 fractures, lower
                                                                          extremity,
                                                                          intertrochanteric, open
                                                                          reduction
                                                                          The following must have
                                                                          Dx code 820 on same
                                                                          claim:
                                                                          • 1149 joints, arthroplasty,
                                                                          hip, femoral head
                                                                          replacement type
                                                                          • 1150 joints, arthroplasty,
                                                                          hip (cup or total hip
                                                                          replacement prosthesis)
                                                                          • 1154 joints, arthroplasty,
                                                                          hip, femoral head, where
                                                                          previous prosthesis, etc
                                                                          require removal
                                                                          • 1415 total hip
                                                                          arthroplasty
                                                                          • 1423 bipolar hip
                                                                          arthroplasty

                  Event qualified by: 1 in-   Event qualified by: 1 in-   Event qualified by: 1 in-
                  hosp/ED Dx (ANY Dx,         hosp/ED Dx (ANY Dx,         hosp/ED Dx (ANY Dx,
                  not just primary) or 1      not just primary)           not just primary) or
                  procedure service code                                  medical claim for hip
                                                                          fracture repair




© 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data
mining, AI training, and similar technologies.
 Events           Definitions Used for       Definitions Used for       Definitions Used for
                  Alberta Data               British Columbia Data      Manitoba Data
 New Glaucoma     ICD10: H40.1%,             ICD10: H40.1%,             ICD10: H40.1%,
 (No history)     H40.6%, H40.8%,            H40.6%, H40.8%,            H40.6%, H40.8%,
                  H40.9%                     H40.9%                     H40.9%
                  ICD9: 365.1%, 365.3%,      ICD9: 365.1%, 365.3%,      ICD9: 365.1%, 365.3%,
                  365.9%                     365.9%                     365.9% (truncated to 3
                                                                        digits when necessary if
                                                                        5-digit code is missing on
                                                                        claim)

                                                                        Glaucoma Surgery Tariff:
                                                                        5547 IRIS AND
                                                                        CILIARY BODY,
                                                                        SURGICAL
                                                                        TRABECULECTOMY
                                                                        OR SIM FILTER PROC
                                                                        FOR GLAUCOMA

                                                                        ATC codes for Drugs to
                                                                        Treat Glaucoma: S01E
                                                                        (includes all subclasses)

                  Event qualified by: 1      Event qualified by: 1      Event qualified by: 1
                  claim or 1 in-             claim or 1 in-hosp/ED Dx   claim or 1 in-hosp/ED Dx
                  hosp/NACRS Dx (ANY         (ANY Dx, not just          (ANY Dx, not just
                  Dx, not just primary)      primary)                   primary) or medical claim
                                                                        Dx or billing code for
                                                                        surgery or 1+Rx for
                                                                        antiglaucoma preparations
                                                                        and miotics

 New Dementia     ICD10: F00%, F01%,         ICD10: F00%, F01%,         ICD10: F00%, F01%,
 (No history)     F03%, G30%                 F03%, G30%                 F03%, G30%
                  ICD9: 290%, 331%           ICD9: 290%, 331%           ICD9: 290%, 331%
                                                                        ATC codes for Drugs to
                                                                        Treat Dementia:
                                                                        N06D (includes all
                                                                        subclasses)
                  Event qualified by: 1      Event qualified by: 1      Event qualified by: 1
                  claim or 1 in-hosp/ED Dx   claim or 1 in-hosp/ED Dx   claim or 1 in-hosp/ED Dx
                  (ANY Dx, not just          (ANY Dx, not just          (ANY Dx, not just
                  primary)                   primary)                   primary) or medical claim
                                                                        Dx or 1+Rx for anti-
                                                                        dementia drugs




© 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data
mining, AI training, and similar technologies.
 Events           Definitions Used for      Definitions Used for        Definitions Used for
                  Alberta Data              British Columbia Data       Manitoba Data
 Non-Vertebral    ICD10:                    ICD10:                      ICD10:
 Fracture         S02%                      S02%                        S02%
                  S22.2% - S22.9%           S22.2% - S22.9%             S22.2% - S22.9%
                  S32.1% - S32.6%           S32.1% - S32.6%             S32.1% - S32.6%
                  S42%, S52%, S62%          S42%, S52%, S62%            S42%, S52%, S62%
                  S72.0%, S72.1%, S72.2%    S72.0%, S72.1%, S72.2%      S72.0%, S72.1%, S72.2%
                  S72.3% - S72.9%           S72.3% - S72.9%             S72.3% - S72.9%
                  S82%, S92%, T02%,         S82%, S92%, T02%,           S82%, S92%, T02%,
                  T10%, T12%                T10%, T12%                  T10%, T12%
                  T14.2%                    T14.2%                      T14.2%

                  ICD9: N/A                 ICD9: N/A                   ICD9: 800-804, 806.6,
                                                                        806.7, 807-807.4, 808,
                                                                        810-819.1, 820-829.1
                                                                        (truncated to 3 digits
                                                                        when necessary if 5-digit
                                                                        code is missing on claim)

                  Event qualified by:       Event qualified by: 1 in-   Event qualified by: 1 in-
                  1 in-hosp/ED Dx (ANY      hosp/ED Dx (ANY Dx,         hosp/ED Dx (ANY Dx,
                  Dx, not just primary)     not just primary)           not just primary) or
                                                                        medical claim Dx

                                                                        Note that hip fractures are
                                                                        a subset of non-vertebral
                                                                        fractures, and the codes
                                                                        overlap.

 New Nursing      Claims Service Location   Billing Codes: 00114,     Admission to Long-term
 Home             Code = ‘NH’               13334, 00115              care using MB LTC
 Admission                                  And Service Location      utilization data:
 (No history)                               Code=’C’ (Residential     http://mchp-
                                            care / assisted living    appserv.cpe.umanitoba.
                                            residence)                ca/dataDescriptions.php
                                                                      ?ds=LTCUtilization
 Last Medical     The last date of contact  The last date of contact  The last date of contact
 Service Date     using PIN, Claims, DAD, using PharmaNet, MSP,       using hospitalizations,
                  NACRS/ED, and LAB         DAD, ED, and Chronic      medical claims, DPIN
                  data                      Disease Registry data     prescription
                                                                      dispensations, EDIS
                                                                      emergency dept visits,
                                                                      long-term care admission,
                                                                      and lab test data.
                  Note: Data coverage up to Note: Data coverage up to Note: Data coverage up to
                  Nov 30, 2023;             Dec 31, 2023; except for  March 31, 2023
                  except for NACRS/ED,      DAD up to Sep 30, 2023;
                  DAD up to Oct 31, 2023. and Chronic Disease
                                            Registry to Mar 31, 2023.


© 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data
mining, AI training, and similar technologies.
                          SECTION 3: Outcome Adjudication
Overview: The Event Adjudication Committee met periodically over the course of the trial to
review information gathered on participants and determine whether potential outcome events
should be accepted or rejected. For each meeting, the committee had three voting members
present, each a practicing family physician (comprised of the trial principal investigator and two
of five additional clinicians, depending on availability). A research assistant controlled the
presentation of data – which included both self-reported events, and administrative health data.
All committee members were fully blinded to allocation. In general, if patient self-report and
administrative health data appeared to corroborate each other, events were accepted without
further investigation. However, if events appeared questionable, or were present in only one of
these sources (e.g. an administrative health data diagnosis of myocardial infarction with no
corresponding participant report), then the participant’s family physician was contacted (by fax
or phone) for more information, and for their opinion on whether the event of interest actually
occurred. This process was followed for hospitalization/ED visit for ACS, stroke, or HF, as well
as for hip fracture, non-vertebral fracture, and new glaucoma diagnosis. We did not seek
confirmation from primary care providers for 1) death or continuing care admission (believing
both of these to be accurately reported by both family and administrative health data), 2) new
diagnosis of dementia (believing this to be a sensitive subject from the participant’s perspective
and not wanting our enquiry to cause them distress), and 3) all-cause unplanned hospitalization
(given the number of hospitalizations/ED visits was high for the trial as a whole and we felt this
could overwhelm the primary care providers). Adjudication rules were evolved as cases were
encountered and the resulting rules used to resolve discrepancies is reported below.

Proportion of Potential Outcomes Disallowed: Overall, a diagnosis provided as the reason for
hospitalization within administrative health data was highly likely to indicate an accepted event.
This was less true for emergency department diagnosis of ACS or stroke (which were often
diagnoses given early on in the clinical presentation before all investigations were completed),
and for participant reported heart failure or stroke (which was often contradicted by primary care
providers examining their records of the events). However, the largest category of disallowed
events was new diagnosis of glaucoma – given ophthalmologists and optometrists appear prone
to provide a claims diagnosis of glaucoma at the stage of elevated intra-ocular pressure, prior to
any loss of vision. In Figure S3-1 below we show the proportion of each outcome that was
rejected by the adjudication committee.




© 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data
mining, AI training, and similar technologies.
Fig. 3-1
    Description: Figure shows the number of reported events accepted and rejected during the adjudication process. Sources of
    reporting included 1) patient reported (Pt-reported), 2) emergency department diagnosis (ED dx), and 3) most responsible hospital
    diagnosis (Hospital dx). Methods of reporting are not mutually exclusive (i.e. a single event might be reported by the patient, as
    well as have an emergency department diagnosis and a most responsible hospital diagnosis).




© 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar
technologies.
Fig. 3-1 Cont.




© 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar
technologies.
   Adjudication Rules Evolved and Used by the Committee

   GENERAL RULES
   - Each outcome will be individually adjudicated and the committee will be blinded to
     allocation at all times. All available administrative health data and all available
     participant reporting of the same outcomes will be simultaneously presented to the
     adjudication committee for deliberation.
   - When the administrative health data and participant self-reported data do not corroborate
     each other, adjudication will be deferred and the participant’s family physician will be
     contacted and requested to provide details from their medical records as to whether or not
     the event in question occurred.
   - When the family physician is consulted and provides additional data, their response, if
     definitive, will generally be accepted over all else.
   - When additional information from the family physician cannot be collected, and the
     participant reported that the event happened out of province, where administrative data is
     not available, the event (if credibly described) will generally be accepted unless stated
     otherwise.
   - If family physicians do not respond to two fax requests for information and one phone
     call, their supplementary information will be considered not available.
   - Each hospitalization will only be attributed to one type of outcome event (e.g. MI/ACS
     OR HF, but not both).
   - Dates from administrative data will be accepted over self-reported dates, when both are
     available.
   - If emergency room and hospitalization dates for the same event type differ substantially,
     the participant, and then the family physician (if needed) will be contacted to clarify the
     correct date, and if these are the same event.
   - When administrative data for an ED visit, and a hospitalization, appear to indicate the
     same event, the earlier of the two dates (i.e. the ED visit) will be used.
   - If participants do not remember the specific date of an event, but instead report a month,
     the 15th of that month will be assigned. If they instead report it is “early”, or “late” in a
     typical month then the 7th (early) or 23rd (late) of that month will be assigned as the date
     of the event.
   - One participant was known to have died (reported by family) but the date was unknown.
     In this case the date of death was assigned to be halfway between the last successful
     follow-up and the next planned follow-up.
   - Only the first occurrence of an accepted adjudicated event will be counted.




© 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data
mining, AI training, and similar technologies.
   DIAGNOSIS SPECIFIC RULES

Acute Coronary Syndrome (ACS) and Heart Failure (HF)
   - When a participant has both an ACS diagnosis and a heart failure (HF) diagnosis during
       the same hospital admission, only the ACS event will be counted.
   - When a participant arrives in the ED or hospital with a most responsible diagnosis of
       angina, whether or not it was diagnosed as unstable angina, it will be considered a
       potential acute coronary syndrome event that requires adjudication.
   - When an ED visit diagnosis was coded as HF, it will be considered a HF event even if the
       patient or family physician describe other physiologic contributors such as anemia or
       arrythmia. The exception to this is a simultaneous ACS diagnosis (in which only ACS
       will be recorded) or an ultimate alternative diagnosis that could explain the presentation
       which is not cardiac (e.g. a final diagnosis that the shortness of breath bringing the patient
       to hospital was caused by a COPD exacerbation, and not HF).
   - When participants or family physicians are not available to corroborate hospitalizations
       where the most responsible diagnosis in administrative data is ACS or HF, it will be
       accepted.
   - When participants or family physicians are not available to corroborate emergency
       department visits where the most responsible diagnosis is ACS or HF, and there is no
       corresponding hospitalization, it will be rejected, as many of these are early diagnoses
       made prior to all investigations being completed.
   - When participants or family physicians are not available to elaborate on hospitalizations
       without a corresponding ED visit and the diagnosis is coronary artery bypass grafting, it
       will not be accepted, as the procedure was potentially treating stable angina.
   - When participants or family physicians are not available to elaborate on hospitalizations
       with a corresponding ED visit and the diagnosis is coronary artery bypass grafting, it will
       be considered an acute coronary syndrome event given the presentation was to the ED.
   - When participants dispute an administrative data diagnosis of ACS or HF, and further
       validation from a family physician is not available, the event will be rejected if it is an
       ED visit without a corresponding hospitalization. If instead the administrative data
       diagnosis is a hospitalization with a most responsible diagnosis of ACS or HF, then
       acceptance will be on a case-by-case basis depending on the other information provided
       by the participant.
   - A diagnosis of MI which is described as being “Type II” in the discharge summary (i.e.
       demand outstripping supply, rather than an acute arterial obstruction) will be rejected as
       likely indicating a different clinical entity.

Stroke
    - Stroke excludes TIA and requires persistence of neurological symptoms beyond 24 hours,
       or brain imaging evidence of cerebral infarction or hemorrhage.
    - CRAO (Central and branch retinal artery occlusion) is considered a stroke event.

© 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data
mining, AI training, and similar technologies.
   -   When participants or family physicians are not available to corroborate hospitalizations
       where the most responsible diagnosis is stroke, it will be accepted.
   -   When participants or family physicians are not available to corroborate emergency
       department visits where the most responsible diagnosis is stroke, and there is no
       corresponding hospitalization, it will be rejected, as many of these are early diagnoses
       made prior to all investigations being completed.
   -   When participants dispute an admin data diagnosis of stroke, and further validation from
       a family physician is not available, the event will be rejected if it is an ED visit without a
       corresponding hospitalization. If instead the admin diagnosis is a hospitalization with a
       most responsible diagnosis of stroke, then acceptance will be on a case-by-case basis
       depending on the other information provided by the participant.

Unplanned All-cause Hospital and ED Visits
   - Because hospitalizations/ED visits are so numerous, we will not attempt to confirm them
      with family physicians.
   - To qualify as “unplanned” we require a diagnosis where a symptom is likely to have led
      the patient to present themselves to the hospital acutely.
   - Where unclear if the event was unplanned, we will err on the side of excluding the event.
   - We will disqualify admissions for surgery that are typically elective (e.g. hip or knee
      replacement for osteoarthritis, cancer surgery) and any ED procedures that are considered
      elective (e.g. a booked blood transfusion or chemotherapy or “follow-up care”).
   - However, if participants present to the emergency department with complications from an
      elective surgery after discharge, that will be counted as an acute event (eg. Prostate
      biopsy bleed, bleeding post polypectomy). We will not accept unplanned overnight
      hospital stays when an elective day surgery was planned (i.e. when the patient did not
      initially leave the hospital and subsequently present to emergency).
   - When cancer is listed as an ED visit diagnosis, it will be accepted. When cancer is listed
      as the reason for hospitalization but there is no corresponding ED visit, it will be rejected.
   - If participants presented to the emergency room but left without being seen, that event
      will be rejected.
   - We excluded one patient presenting to the ED for “medication refill”, and one for the
      start of “palliative care”.
   - If participants describe attending an “urgent care centre” that is not attached to a hospital,
      it will not be counted as an emergency department, and the event will be excluded.

Hip Fractures
    - Any hip fracture, whether or not surgery was involved, will be counted as a fracture
       event.
    - Hip fracture includes fracture of the acetabulum.



© 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data
mining, AI training, and similar technologies.
   -   If neither primary care provider information, nor participant interview, are available to
       corroborate an administrative health indication of hospitalization for hip fracture it will
       still be accepted.

Death
   - If the administrative health data, dialog with friends/family, published obituaries, or
      primary care providers indicate a death, this data will be accepted unless there is
      participant follow up data to contradict it.


New Diagnosis of Glaucoma
   - It became clear early on that there are many outpatient administrative health diagnoses of
      glaucoma provided to patients who only have elevated intraocular pressure. The same is
      true for prescriptions of glaucoma eyedrops, which are often prescribed prior to any of
      the visual loss that would make the diagnosis of glaucoma clear. As a result, an
      administrative data diagnosis of glaucoma, or a prescription for glaucoma eye drops, on
      its own, is insufficient to indicate a new diagnosis of glaucoma.
   - If family physicians cannot corroborate or refute an administrative data diagnosis of
      glaucoma using ophthalmology or optometry consult letters, we require participants to
      have been told by their ophthalmologist or optometrist that they have glaucoma in order
      to accept the diagnosis.
   - If participants were told they have glaucoma by an ophthalmologist or optometrist and
      there are no family physician records to review, the diagnosis will be accepted. If the
      family physician did have an ophthalmology or optometry report to review and glaucoma
      is not mentioned, the diagnosis will be rejected.
   - “Glaucoma suspect” in an ophthalmology or optometry report will be accepted as a
      glaucoma diagnosis.

Nursing Home admission
   - Both administrative health data and participant/family-reports indicating nursing home
       admission will be accepted. Corroboration from family physicians is not required.
   - Participants who began the trial in a low level of care assisted living facility where they
       had control of their own medication administration time, who subsequently move to a
       higher level of care where medications are administered by nurses or care aides, will be
       accepted as being admitted to a nursing home.

Non-vertebral fractures
   - Includes any fracture, other than vertebral (back or neck), that is presumed to stem from
      trauma.
   - We will include avulsion fractures as being traumatic, and we will exclude stress
      fractures.

© 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data
mining, AI training, and similar technologies.
   -   Fractures that are attributed to osteomyelitis, or malignancy, will be excluded.
   -   Participants need to receive their fracture diagnosis from a health care practitioner (i.e.
       self-diagnosis will not be accepted).
   -   Includes sacral / pelvic fractures
   -   If information describing a fracture is ultimately only available from one source (i.e.
       patient report or administrative health data) it will generally be accepted.




© 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data
mining, AI training, and similar technologies.
              SECTION 4: Ambulatory Blood Pressure Monitoring
        Although we did not measure BP in all participants, a consecutive sample of 151
bedtime, and 151 morning group volunteers residing in one of six Alberta communities (Calgary,
Edmonton, Camrose, Sherwood Park, Spruce Grove, and Red Deer) underwent 24-hour
ambulatory BP monitoring (ABPM) carried out by a local cardiology diagnostics provider
(Advanced Respiratory Care Network - www.arcnetwork.ca/cardiology-diagnostics). The
intention was to carry this assessment out 6-months post-randomization, however a variety of
logistic hurdles, including the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, substantially delayed these
assessments for many individuals – instead taking place a median 9.6 months (IQR 7.1 to 29.2
months) into the trial.
        A Suntech Oscar 2 M250 ambulatory BP monitor was employed in all cases, with
settings per the local provider’s usual routine. Although the frequency of BP readings varied
somewhat by location, this typically entailed taking BP readings every 30 minutes during the day
and every 45 minutes overnight, with the anticipated sleep time window pre-defined by the
participant (most often 11:00 PM to 7:00 AM). When ABPM output was grossly inadequate, the
cardiology diagnostics provider performing the service asked participants to repeat those
assessments per their usual routine, without interacting with the research team. ABPM results
forwarded to the research team, who required a minimum of 5 successful overnight readings and
8 successful daytime readings, were additionally considered inadequate for interpretation for
seven bedtime and five morning participants, each of whom was asked to repeat the assessment.
Of these, 3/7 bedtime and 2/5 morning participants declined a repeat evaluation, which required
the same number of additional participants (consecutively selected) to be invited to undergo 24-
hour monitoring to replace them. Overall, in order to obtain 151 consecutive participants from
each arm of the trial, we needed to invite 356 bedtime group participants and 346 morning group
participants (Figure 4-1 below).




© 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data
mining, AI training, and similar technologies.
Fig. 4-1 Flow diagram for 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure monitoring




© 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data
mining, AI training, and similar technologies.
                    SECTION 5: Definitions, Statistical Analyses,
                      and Changes to Secondary Outcomes
Lost to follow-up: Participants were considered lost to follow-up when attempts to re-establish
contact were exhausted. This included, but was not limited to, initially reaching out to all
provided alternate contacts, and then contacting their primary care provider's clinic.

Three situations initiated the process of reaching out to alternate contacts:
   1. The study team attempted to contact the participant by phone or email 10 times without a
       reply.
   2. The participant missed 2 interviews in a row (“missed” being defined as having still been
       unreachable 5 weeks after the scheduled interview date).
   3. The study team phoned the participant, but the phone line was disconnected or non-
       functional.

If alternate contacts were not reached within a week, the participant’s primary care clinic was
contacted by phone to inquire about the participant’s status and contact information. On rare
occasions when the primary care office could not be contacted (i.e. the provider had retired, the
clinic had closed, or the participant had changed primary care providers without notifying us) the
study team mailed a letter to the participant's current address in an effort to re-establish contact.


Analytic Covariates: Analytic covariates were predefined and unique to each outcome. The
number of covariates used, and the order in which they were selected, was provided in the
published statistical analysis plan for every outcome examined. For the primary analysis,
baseline characteristics used as covariates to produce the adjusted hazard ratio included: Age,
sex, physical frailty score (Tilburg), current smoker, number of non-BP medications, Overall
Health Score (EQ-5D-5L), prior 6 months hospitalization, heart failure, diabetes, coronary artery
disease, stroke or TIA, chronic kidney disease, dialysis, BMI >35kg/m2, BMI <20kg/m2, sleep
apnea, number of exercise days, and province of residence.


Appropriateness of the statistical analyses used: Categorical variables were summarized by
count and percent, while distributions of recorded variables were described by appropriate
measures of center (mean, median) and spread (SD, IQR). Methods of analyses to compare
between groups were applied according to a published trial protocol and analysis plan.

Data were considered missing at random. Covariate data were replaced by the modal observation
for categorical variables and by the mean for continuous ones. No outcome data were imputed.

A series of Cox Proportional hazards models were used to assess the primary and secondary
outcomes over and above the effects of clinical and demographic factors. Where group sizes /
number of outcomes were limited, reduced models were used to avoid overfitting. Variables
were included in a predefined order of presumed importance. We confirmed no violations of the
proportional hazards assumption in the allocation group using a Kolmogorov-type supremum test
on the sum of martingale residuals on 1000 simulated patterns for all outcomes. Any evidence of

© 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data
mining, AI training, and similar technologies.
proportional hazard assumption violation among covariates was considered insignificant because
they are not of primary interest, and adjustment models did not appreciably change the results
compared to unadjusted analysis.

Changes to secondary outcomes: The following changes were made to secondary outcomes
while fully blinded to all primary and secondary outcomes. They came about at the time the draft
manuscript for the published protocol was being written and co-investigators were reviewing and
providing feedback on the current version of the protocol.
1. Change from baseline in self-reported Overall Health Score at 12-months was altered to
   Overall Health Score at 12-months. This alteration was made when it was newly
   recognized that comparing absolute change (or percentage change) from baseline between
   groups often provides less power to detect a difference than comparing on-treatment scores.
   (Vickers AJ. The use of percentage change from baseline as an outcome in a controlled trial
   is statistically inefficient: a simulation study. BMC Medical Research Methodology
   2001;1:6).
2. Total cost of care was added as an outcome to strengthen the cost analysis –whereas
   previously only acute care costs were to be analyzed.
3. Non-vertebral fracture was added as a secondary outcome. Although captured by
   administrative health data throughout the trial, we had not been asking participants about
   fractures other than hip fracture until mid-trial when we began to ask about any fractures.
   Hence this outcome was less sensitively captured in the early years of the trial.
4. Syncope in the last month, falling in the last month, new glaucoma diagnosis, nocturia
   frequency, and new impairment consistent with dementia were added as secondary
   safety outcomes. The information defining these outcomes had been collected from all
   participants since the beginning of the trial but had not previously been prespecified as
   outcomes we would analyze. They were all believed to meaningfully augment our other
   safety outcomes.




© 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data
mining, AI training, and similar technologies.
   eFigure 1. Location of participating medical clinics




© 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar
technologies.
   eFigure 2. Medications in use at baseline




© 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar
technologies.
eFigure 2. Medications in use at baseline (continued)




© 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar
technologies.
