9    Adverse Events
Each initial adverse event (AE) will be considered for severity, causality or expectedness. A
serious adverse event (SAE) is any AE that:
    •   Results in death;
    •   Is life threatening;
    •   Required hospitalisation or prolongation of existing hospitalisation;
    •   Results in persistent or significant disability or incapacity;
    •   consists of a congenital anomaly or birth defect;
    •   results in any other significant medical event not meeting the criteria above.


Please see the study protocol for more details on AEs. The number of adverse events (AEs) and
serious adverse events (SAEs) and the proportion of participants with an event will be
presented. These will be tabulated but not formally analysed and will be summarised by
Intention-to-Treat (ITT) and as treated. Safety data will be presented for all participants who
were randomised and received the IMP.


10 Sample Size and Power Calculation
A sample size of 562 randomised 1:1 to IV lidocaine or placebo will have 90% power at a 2-
sided 5% level of significance to detect a relative reduction of 33% from 40% to 26.8%
(absolute reduction of 13.2%) in non-return of gut function at 3 days post-op. If the event rate
is lower, the same power should detect a 40% relative reduction from 30% to 18% (a 12%
absolute reduction). The sample size base based on the assumption that there should be no
missing primary outcome data; however, in reality, some participants withdraw from having
outcome data collected before reaching the primary outcome timepoint, so there may be some
missing primary outcome data.


11 Statistical Methods
11.1 General Methods
All the analyses will be based on the Intention-to-Treat (ITT) principle. Final analysis will take
place after full recruitment and follow-up. The results of the trial will be presented following
the standard CONSORT recommendations1. Baseline and follow-up data will be summarised
using the appropriate descriptive statistics and graphical summaries. Treatment effects will be
presented with 95% confidence intervals (CIs) (apart from subgroup analysis). There will be



Statistical Analysis Plan – Minimally Invasive, version 2                           Page 13 of 38
