no adjustment to secondary outcomes for multiple testing. All eligible participants who
provided consent will be included in the analysis. Post-randomisation exclusions will be
reported as such and not included in any analysis. We aim to replace these post-randomisation
exclusions if it is possible within the recruitment window.


Full details of analyses for each outcome variable along with sample Stata code is available in
appendix.


11.2 Interim Analysis
No interim analysis is planned for the Minimally Invasive study. However, a regular report is
produced for the independent Data Monitoring Committee (DMC) which monitors trial
progress and specifically any safety issues.


11.3 Primary Outcome
The primary outcome will be analysed using a generalised linear model with a log link function,
given its binary state for each individual. Treatment effects will be reported for the primary
endpoint only (by 72 hours). The generalised linear model will be used to adjust for the
minimisation variables; gender, age and centre (the latter via a random effect).


11.4 Secondary Outcomes
Secondary outcomes will be analysed in a similar manner but using the appropriate statistical
model for the outcome (Cox regression for time-to-event outcomes, linear regression for
continuous variables) with adjustment for minimisation variables; gender, age and centre (the
latter via a random effect). OBAS, QoR-15 and EQ-5D will be analysed using repeated
measures including baseline score as an additional covariate. Treatment effects will be
estimated from time-by-treatment interactions at each time point.


11.5 Subgroup Analyses
Subgroup by treatment interaction will be assessed for the primary outcome by including
interaction terms in the models outlined above. These have been assessed a-priori to be:
    •   6 hour vs. 12 hour IMP infusion (defined by what was intended)
    •   By operation (right v non-right hemicolectomy)
    •   Gender (M vs F)



Statistical Analysis Plan – Minimally Invasive, version 2                          Page 14 of 38
