                                              Supplementary Online Content

Sayón-Orea C, Razquin C, Bulló M, et al. Effect of a nutritional and behavioral intervention on energy-reduced Mediterranean diet
adherence among patients with metabolic syndrome [published October 15, 2019]. JAMA. doi:10.1001/jama.2019.14630

Supplement 3. eTable 1. Definitions of scores capturing the four dietary patterns.
eTable 2. Baseline dietary variables and their changes by randomized treatment group: Foods and foods groups.
eTable 3. Sensitivity analysis. Baseline, 6-month and 12-month changes in quality dietary scores by randomized treatment group:
completers only.
eTable 4. Sensitivity analysis. Baseline, 6-month and 12-month changes in food items by randomized treatment group: completers
only.
eTable 5. Sensitivity analysis. Baseline values, 6-month and 12-month changes in nutrient intake by randomized treatment group:
completers only
eTable 6. Sensitivity analysis. Baseline and 6- and 12- month changes in quality dietary scores by randomized treatment group: All
randomized participants. Replacing all missing values with baseline value.
eTable 7. Sensitivity analysis. Baseline values, 6-month and 12- month changes in food items by randomized treatment group: all
randomized participants. Replacing all missing values with baseline value
eTable 8. Sensitivity analysis. Baseline values, 6-month and 12-month changes in nutrient intake by randomized treatment group:
all randomized participants. Replacing all missing values with baseline value.
eTable 9. Baseline and 12- month change (95% confidence intervals) in risk factors, by treatment group: all randomized 245
participants (multiple imputation [MI]) and completers only.
eFigure 1. Mean values (95% CI) of scores capturing the 4 quality dietary patterns at baseline, at 6 months and at 12 months
according to the randomized treatment group.
eFigure 2. Percentage of participants complying with the intended dietary changes by randomized treatment group
eFigure 3 Changes in nutritional variables (expressed in common units of baseline standard deviations) after 6 and 12 months in
the control and in the intervention group.

This supplementary material has been provided by the authors to give readers additional information about their work.




                                      © 2019 American Medical Association. All rights reserved.
