to be achieved, may lead the AP-HP sponsor or the Competent Authority (ANSM) to interrupt
the research prematurely.

The AP-HP sponsor reserves the right to definitively suspend inclusions at any time if inclusion
targets are not being met.

In the event of research termination, all patients already included will be followed up until the
end-of-participation visit.

In the event of premature termination of research for safety reasons, the decision and
justification are sent by the AP-HP sponsor within 15 days to the Competent Authority (ANSM)
and to the ethical review board, together with the recommendations of the DSMB (if applicable)
in the case of a substantial modification.

7

INTERVENTION AND MEDICAL DEVICES USED IN RESEARCH

7.1

MMA embolization procedure

For patients randomized in the experimental arm who have no contraindication to embolization
based on data from the CT angiography of the supra-aortic trunks and circle of Willis,
embolization will be performed as follows:

Under conditions of surgical asepsis, with local anesthesia of the puncture site and conscious
sedation if required, via the femoral or radial artery if necessary, the external carotid artery
homolateral to the hematoma is catheterized with a guide catheter. The MMA is catheterized
beyond the foramen spinosum with a Progreat microcatheter navigated on a microguide wire.
Hyperselective angiography of the middle meningeal artery through the microcatheter is
performed to ensure that there is no macroscopic anastomosis between the MMA and the
ophthalmic artery. In the absence of an anastomosis deemed risky by the operator, the MMA is
embolized with calibrated particles, in free flow, until truncular occlusion.

If an anastomosis between the MMA and the ophthalmic artery is detected during
catheterization and selective angiography, embolization can be performed either by injecting
the particles beyond the anastomosis with a sufficient safety margin, or after occlusion of the

28/63
EMPROTECT protocol version 1.1 of 06/01/2020

This document is the property of DRCI / APHP. Any reproduction is strictly forbidden.

