The pathophysiology of cSDH involves inflammation with hypervascularization of the dura
mater and hemorrhagic suffusion into the subdural space (15). The dura mater of the convexity
is vascularized preferentially by the middle meningeal artery (MMA), whose caliber is
generally increased on the side of the cSDH (16). Endovascular embolization of this artery
with calibrated particles has recently been described for the treatment of cSDH, to prevent
recurrence in simple or refractory cSDH, or even as a curative treatment for cSDH without
threatening mass effect for some authors (15,17). Most of these publications report single cases
or case series. A large series of 72 non-randomized cases was reported by Ban et al. (15). This
team proposed embolization to all patients managed for cSDH, whether operated or not.
Preliminary results are very promising. The procedure is straightforward and carries a very low
risk of complication.
We hypothesize that MMA embolization of a surgically evacuated cSDH, in patients at high
risk of recurrence, would significantly reduce the risk of postoperative recurrence.

2.3

Summary of relevant pre-clinical experiments and clinical trials

Improving the treatment of cSDH is an active area of research. For example, temporary
placement of a drain in the subdural space after cSDH evacuation, compared with evacuation
alone, has been shown to reduce the risk of recurrence, making it the standard surgical technique
(9,18,19). No other medical or surgical intervention has yet proved effective in reducing the
risk of recurrence. Recurrence can occur even after drain placement, particularly in patients
with risk factors such as anticoagulant or antiplatelet therapy.

MMA embolization, most often with calibrated particles, but also with coils or cyanoacrylic
glue, has been described for the treatment of cSDH to prevent recurrence (12,20–22). Most of
these publications concern single cases or case series. This technique was initially proposed for
very limited indications, namely refractory cSDH (after several recurrences), or after a first
recurrence in patients with additional risk factors (12,17,23). Ban et al. extended the indications
for embolization by proposing this technique to a consecutive series of patients with operated
and unoperated (curative intervention) cSDH of more than 10mm thickness (15). Comparison
of this cohort with a historical series suggests a significant reduction in recurrences and recourse
to surgery (15). Finally, a small non-comparative study, referenced on ClinicalTrials.gov
(https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03307395?cond=subdural&rank=1),

is

currently

12/63
EMPROTECT protocol version 1.1 of 06/01/2020

This document is the property of DRCI / APHP. Any reproduction is strictly forbidden.

