anastomosis by coiling, enabling protection of the ophthalmic artery prior to particle injection.
The two main branches of the MMA (anterior-frontal and posterior-parietal or petrosquamous)
can be embolized jointly via the common trunk of the MMA, or selectively sequentially to
protect the orbital branches (from the anterior branch) or a prominent petrous branch.

The introducer sheath should be removed at the end of the procedure with compression or
arterial closure device applied. Strict bed rest for 12 to 24 hours is recommended for femoral
procedures, to limit the risk of hematoma at the puncture site.

It is the MMA embolization procedure that is the subject of this randomized trial. However,
embolization implies the use of an implantable medical device (the embolization particles). As
Merit Medical will be supplying the particles for the embolization procedures, the EmboSphere
300-500µm particles to be used are described in greater details in the following paragraphs.

For patients operated for bilateral cSDH and presenting a risk factor for recurrence such as
antiplatelet therapy, if randomized to the intervention arm, bilateral embolization will be
performed. A patient operated bilaterally for bilateral cSDH and not presenting risk factors for
recurrence as set out above will not be eligible after the first surgery. In the event of recurrence
leading to repeat surgery, whether unilateral or bilateral, they may be included in the absence
of non-inclusion criteria. If randomized in the embolization arm, both right and left sides must
be embolized (even if the recurrence surgery involved only one of the two sides, right or left).

7.2

Experimental device used for the MMA embolization procedure

7.2.1

Device identification

EMBOSPHERE 300-500µm calibrated embolization particles (Merit Medical)

7.2.2

Intended use of the device

The particles will be used to occlude the middle meningeal artery (embolization procedure) and
delivered via a compatible microcatheter.

29/63
EMPROTECT protocol version 1.1 of 06/01/2020

This document is the property of DRCI / APHP. Any reproduction is strictly forbidden.

