Strict bed rest for 12 to 24 hours after use of the femoral approach will minimize the risk of
hematoma at the puncture site.

It is important to note that it is the "embolization" procedure that we are evaluating. This
procedure involves a medical device: CE-marked calibrated particles for vascular embolization,
e.g. for hyper-vascular meningiomas.

For patients operated for bilateral cSDH and presenting a risk factor for recurrence such as
antiplatelet therapy, if randomized to the intervention arm, bilateral embolization will be
performed. A patient operated bilaterally for bilateral cSDH and not presenting risk factors for
recurrence as set out above will not be eligible after the first surgery. In the event of recurrence
leading to repeat surgery, whether unilateral or bilateral, they may be included in the absence
of non-inclusion criteria. If randomized in the embolization arm, both sides, right and left, must
be embolized (even if the recurrence surgery involved only one of the two sides, right or left).

2.6

Summary of foreseeable and known benefits and risks for research subjects

Demonstrating the efficacy of this procedure would have a major impact on the management
of cSDH, with a reduction in the risk of post-operative recurrence, and consequently in the
morbidity and mortality of this pathology. It would also reduce the rate of repeat surgery and
length of hospital stay. The procedure would allow the resumption of anti-coagulants and
antiplatelet medication for primary or secondary prevention in cases of formal indication.

This procedure would expose the patient to low risk (risk associated with endovascular
navigation, exposure to X-rays and injection of a contrast medium). The procedure would
require strict bed rest for 12 to 24 hours, and should not prolong hospitalization.

As the majority of patients with cSDH are elderly and vulnerable, the minimally invasive, lowrisk nature of the proposed procedure seems particularly appropriate. The minimally invasive
nature of the procedure also means that the post-intervention after-effects are very short,
avoiding prolonged hospitalization.

15/63
EMPROTECT protocol version 1.1 of 06/01/2020

This document is the property of DRCI / APHP. Any reproduction is strictly forbidden.

