- Subject lost to follow-up: the subject's outcome is unknown. The investigator must make every
effort to recontact the subject, his/her relatives or his/her attending general practitioner (and
document this in the source file) in order to know at least whether the subject is alive or dead,
and if possible whether he has been hospitalized for a recurrence of his/her cSDH.
- In the event of premature termination of a subject's research, or withdrawal of consent, data
concerning the subject collected prior to premature termination may be used.
- If the patient refuses to attend the follow-up visits, the study endpoints can be collected by
telephone interview with the patient, his/her family and his/her general practitioner. This will
be notified.
- In the event of serious adverse events, please refer to the corresponding vigilance paragraph.
- The eCRF should list the various reasons for discontinuing participation in the research:
- Subject's personal reasons
- Explicit withdrawal of consent.
- Lost to follow-up

Procedures for replacing these people, if applicable: Patients lost to follow-up or withdrawing
consent will not be replaced. A rate of 20% of patients lost to follow-up is included in the
calculation of the number of subjects required.

6.4.3. Stopping all or part of the research project

The AP-HP sponsor or the Competent Authority (ANSM: agence nationale de sécurité des
medicaments et des produits de santé; French national agency for security of medication and
health products) may prematurely interrupt temporarily or definitively all or part of the research,
following the recommendations of a Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) in the following
situations:
first, in the event of serious unexpected adverse events (SUSARS) in one arm of the study, or
an imbalance of serious adverse events between the 2 arms of the study, necessitating a
reassessment of the benefit/risk ratio of the study.
In case of significant difference (p<0.001) in the planned interim analysis after inclusion of 129
subjects

Similarly, unforeseen events or new information relating to the procedure performed or the
product used, in the light of which the objectives of the research or clinical program are unlikely
27/63
EMPROTECT protocol version 1.1 of 06/01/2020

This document is the property of DRCI / APHP. Any reproduction is strictly forbidden.

