2

SCIENTIFIC JUSTIFICATION OF RESEARCH

2.1

Description of knowledge relating to the pathology concerned

Chronic subdural hematoma (cSDH) is a collection of aged (liquefied) blood between the dura
mater and arachnoid. It usually occurs two to four weeks after minor head trauma. Radiological
diagnosis is straightforward, and relies on an non-contrast computed tomography (CT) scan
showing an extra-axial collection of variable density, usually unilateral and crescent-shaped
along the convexity. This may be associated with deviation of midline shift, or even brain
herniation. The most frequently encountered factors favoring the occurrence of CSDH are
chronic alcohol abuse, advanced age, cerebral atrophy, and treatment with anticoagulants or
antiplatelet agents (1–3). Following the formation of an acute subdural hematoma, lysis of the clot
releases fibrin degradation products, triggering a local inflammatory process. This inflammation
promotes neovascularization of the outer membrane of the cSDH in contact with the dura mater,
itself richly vascularized (4–6). Microbleeds from this outer membrane are responsible for the
secondary maintenance of the cSDH.

CSDH is one of the most frequently encountered pathologies in emergency neurosurgery. The
reported annual incidence varies from 5 to 14 per 100,000 people (7,8). This range is at least
partly linked to differences in demographic structure between populations, since incidence rises
sharply above the age of 65, to 58 per 100,000 people per year (8). The increased incidence of
cSDH is also linked to the use of anticoagulants and antiplatelet medication in this population.
(2). An increase in cSDH incidence is therefore expected due to the ageing of the population
and the growing use of anticoagulants and antiplatelet medication, particularly in the French
population. This makes the management of cSDH a major public health issue. CSDH is
associated with a mortality rate of 4% and a morbidity rate of 10%. (9). The standard treatment
for cSDH is neurosurgical burr-hole evacuation with a drain. The risk of post-operative
recurrence is around 10-20%, occurring mostly within 3 to 6 months (9,10). Known risk factors
for recurrence include: 1) previously recurrent cSDH, 2) anticoagulation, 3) antiplatelet
medication, 4) chronic alcohol abuse and 5) pre- and post-operative volume of the cSDH (11–
14). Recurrence is itself a major risk factor for in-hospital morbidity and mortality. Preventing
recurrence is therefore a major issue in practice and in clinical research.

2.2

Research hypotheses

11/63
EMPROTECT protocol version 1.1 of 06/01/2020

This document is the property of DRCI / APHP. Any reproduction is strictly forbidden.

