337
338
339
340
341
342
343
344
345
346
347
348
349
350
351

Kellams, Kathryn Heck,RN, IBCLC and the social marketing consultants. Focus groups will be
used to test and refine the video messaging (see section C4 for focus group methods).
C3b. mHealth Intervention. Recruited mothers will receive routine postpartum care, including
safe sleep education from the nursery staff (who have received either the Safe Sleep or
Breastfeeding Nursery Education). Within 72 hours of enrollment, participants will begin to
receive email messages on safe sleep or breastfeeding, determined by the group assignment,
which will continue on a twice-weekly basis until the infant is 2 months of age. We will be using
an email platform developed by our mHealth consultant David Mathison, MD, MBA (letter of
support attached), pediatric emergency physician and CEO of healthEworks, who has received
NIH funding to create and evaluate mobile Video PrescriptionsTM sent via email to pediatric
emergency department patients. A sample algorithm for sleep position messages for the Safe
Sleep mHealth groups is in Table 1. The messages will be interactive and tailored to participant
responses. Similar algorithms have been developed for roomsharing, soft bedding, pacifier use,
and for the Breastfeeding mHealth education.

352
353
354
355
356
357
358
359
360
361
362
363
364
365
366

C4. Focus group methodology.
Focus groups will be conducted with nursery staff to obtain qualitative data to inform the
Safe Sleep and Breastfeeding Nursery Education curricula. In addition, in focus groups, we will
test all videos with members of the target audience for content validity, effectiveness, and
cultural sensitivity. Drs. Colson, Hauck, and Kellams will coordinate the focus groups, and our
social marketing and cultural competence consultants will advise us in this process. Mothers
eligible for focus groups will be English-speaking, have infants <6 months of age (as young
infants are at highest risk for sleep-related death), and have regular (at least weekly) email
access. Participants for each maternal focus group will be fairly homogeneous with regard to
SES and race/ethnicity, as homogeneity increases the comfort level of the participants, resulting
in increased willingness to share thoughts and opinions.77 Nursery focus groups will be
comprised of newborn nursery nursing staff. Based on past experience, we believe that 3-5
focus groups per subgroup will be sufficient for analysis of themes and patterns. If new themes
are still emerging at the end of these focus groups, more will be conducted until thematic
saturation is reached. Each focus group will have 6-8 participants. To aid in recruitment, $50

Table 1: Sample Algorithm for Sleep Position Messages
Intervention Component
Sample Message/Content
Introduction to program

Welcome to SMART

As part of this study, we will send you messages twice a week for 2 months.
What time of day would you like your message? (interactive)
Encouragement of supine

Check out this video here! It will help you keep (Baby’s Name) safe while
sleep position
s/he sleeps! (Personalized)

Video: rationale for supine sleep position

Did you have a chance to see the video that we sent you?

If NO- provide link for video again

If YES: Did you like the video?
Addressing barriers to supine 
Do you worry that (Baby’s Name) might choke if s/he is sleeping on the
sleep position
back?
(choking/aspiration)

If YES: Look at this video here. It talks about why you don’t have to worry
about (Baby’s name) choking while on the back

Did you have a chance to see the video about choking that we
recommended?

If NO – provide link for video again

If YES: Did you like the video?
Addressing barriers to supine 
Does (Baby’s Name) ever have trouble falling or staying asleep on the back?
sleep position (infant comfort) 
If YES: This video here talks about ways to help your baby sleep on the
back.

Did you have a chance to see the video about helping your baby sleep?

If NO – provide link for video again

If YES: Did you like the video?

