Research Original Inves iga ion Effec of Single-Dose Aspirin Prior o FIT on Colorec al Cancer De ec ion



 packed he rial medica ion (single able con aining 300-mg rial had been designed o have 90% power (in 2-sided es -
 aspirin wi hou en eric coa ing [ASS Ra iopharm 300 mg, ing a α = .05) o de ec a difference in sensi ivi y be ween in-
 Ra iopharm GmbH] or cellulose, lac osemonohydra e, mag- erven ion and con rol group a day 2 of 24 percen age poin s
 nesium s eara e [placebo]). A randomized block design was (60% vs 36%).
 used wi h each block con aining 20 able s (10 assigned o each
 group). Table s were aken from heir original packaging by S a is ical Analyses
 rained personnel in a clean room class D environmen and re- Par icipan s were analyzed according o heir randomiza ion
 packaged and labeled in a blind manner. group. Those who wi hdrew heir consen or did no con rib-
 u e wi h any samples and informa ion were excluded as drop-
 Da a Processing ou s. Par icipan s who did no provide s ool samples prior o
 Da a collec ed a he rial cen ers were en ered in o elec ronic colonoscopy were excluded from he primary analysis.
 case repor forms (eCRFs) on si e and ransferred o a da a- Allanalyseswereperformedwi hRs a is icalsof warever-
 base a he coordina ing cen er. Deiden ified colonoscopy and sion 3.4.0. Wald-adjus ed confidence in ervals were com-
 his ology repor s were sen o he coordina ing cen er, where pu ed for sensi ivi y and specifici y values (Agres i-Coull
 informa ion was ex rac ed and en ered in o a colonoscopy da- adjus men )18and hedifferences(Agres i-Caffoadjus men )19
 abase by 2 independen , blinded reviewers. Comprehensive wi h he PropCIs package. In erac ion P values were ob ained
 plausibili y checks of da a en ries were performed by medi- from a generalized linear model fi for binomial da a. S a is-
 cal informa ion specialis s. ical significance was defined by a 2-sided P value <.05. No ad-
 jus men s were made for mul iple es ing. Analyses of sec-
 Labora ory Me hods ondary ou comes should herefore be regarded as explora ory.
 Par icipan s were asked o collec fecal samples in samp-
 ling ubes provided by he manufac urers and send hem o Sensi ivi y Analysis
 he coordina ing cen er, where hey were s ored a 2°C o 8°C To accoun for s udy conduc ion a mul iple si es, a general-
 un il analysis. Median ime be ween s ool sampling and ized linear mixed model, wi h a random in ercep accoun ing
 arrival in he coordina ing cen er was 4 days (in erquar ile for he si e, was fi ed for each ou come of he main in en ion-
 range, 3-5 days). o-screen analysis via he lme4 package.20 A likelihood ra io
 The quan i a ive FIT was analyzed in an ex ernal accred- es 21 for he null hypo hesis of zero variance of he random
 i ed labora ory (Limbach Labora ory) using Abbo Archi ec in ercep was performed.
 c8000 (analy ical range, 0.03-142 μg-Hb/g feces). Analyses of
 Hb concen ra ion by he quali a ive FIT were performed a he
 coordina ing cen er. All labora ory analyses were performed
 Resul s
 blinded wi h respec o rea men assignmen and clinical and
 colonoscopy da a. From 2422 recrui ed par icipan s, 288 dropped ou or were ex-
 cluded for he reasons shown in he Figure, leaving 2134 par-
 Ou comes icipan s for he analysis. Table 1 displays main charac eris-
 The primary ou come was sensi ivi y of he quan i a ive FIT ics of he rial popula ion, which included similar propor ions
 for de ec ing advanced neoplasms a 2 predefined cu offs: of women and men. The majori y (93.6%) of par icipan s were
 17-μg Hb/g feces, he cu off given by he manufac urer, and be ween45and74yearsold,meanagewas59.6years.Seven y-
 10.2-μg Hb/g feces, he cu off of he quali a ive FIT, in fecal eigh percen of colonoscopies were conduc ed for primary
 samples scheduled 2 days af er in ake of aspirin or placebo. screening. Advanced neoplasms were iden ified in 224 par-
 The main analysis followed an in en ion- o-screen approach icipan s(10.5%),including8par icipan s(0.4%)wi hCRCand
 using fecal samples scheduled for day 2 af er able in ake; 216 par icipan s (10.1%) wi h advanced adenoma. Dis ribu-
 resul s of analyses following a prespecified per-pro ocol ions of demographic and clinical charac eris ics were similar
 approach using fecal samples collec ed a exac ly day 2 are in he in erven ion and he con rol group.
 addi ionally repor ed. Prespecified secondary ou comes eTable 2 in Supplemen 3 shows he numbers of re urned
 repor ed in his ar icle were specifici y, posi ive predic ive and valid FITs by bo h scheduled and ac ual day of s ool sam-
 value (PPV) and nega ive predic ive value (NPV) of he quan- pling. A o al of 1030 (95.8%) and 1012 (95.6%) valid samples
 i a ive es , po en ial gain in sensi ivi y by combining resul s for hequan i a iveFITscheduledforday2wereob ainedfrom
 from mul iple fecal samples scheduled on any day be ween par icipan s in he in erven ion and con rol group, respec-
 day 2 and day 4, sensi ivi y, specifici y, PPV and NPV of he ively. Numbers for he quali a ive FIT were 974 (90.6%) and
 quali a ive es , sex-specific sensi ivi y, specifici y, PPV and 969 (91.5%), respec ively.
 NPV of bo h es s, and serious adverse even s. Fur her sec-
 ondary ou comes no repor ed in his ar icle were likelihood Primary End Poin 
 ra ios and area under he curve. The sensi ivi ies of he quan i a ive FIT for de ec ing ad-
 vanced neoplasms using fecal samples scheduled 2 days af er
 Sample Size and Power Calcula ions able in ake (in en ion- o-screen analysis) are shown in
 Assuming a prevalence of advanced neoplasms of 10% and Table 2. A he 10.2-μg Hb/g s ool cu off, sensi ivi y was 40.2%
 based on he resul s of he preceding observa ional s udy,13 he in he in erven ion group and was 30.4% in he placebo group


 1688 JAMA May 7, 2019 Volume 321, Number 17 (Reprin ed) jama.com

 © 2019 American Medical Associa ion. All righ s reserved.

Downloaded from jamane work.com by Universi y of Arizona Heal h Sciences Library user on 07/30/2026\n