Research Original Investigation

Effect of Quality Improvement and Mobile Health Interventions on Infant Sleep

A

national public awareness campaign (Back to Sleep) to
improve rates of supine infant sleep positioning to reduce the risk of sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS)
was successful in halving the US SIDS rate; however, in 2014
there were still approximately 3500 infant deaths due to SIDS,
accidental suffocation or strangulation in bed, or ill-defined
causes.1 The peak age incidence for these deaths to occur is
at 1 to 4 months, and 90% occur before the age of 6 months.2
Barriers to changing parental behavior regarding infant safe
sleep environments include concerns that the infant will not
sleep as well3-6 or will be more likely to aspirate3-7 when placed
in the supine sleep position. Adherence to supine sleep recommendations plateaued between 2001 and 2010, never
reaching target levels.8 Furthermore, US public health efforts
have been less successful in changing behaviors with regard
to bed sharing9 and soft bedding use.10 Although pacifier use
is associated with reduced SIDS risk,11 no interventions to increase pacifier use have been published. In addition, there are
racial/ethnic disparities in adherence to infant safe sleep
recommendations.6,9,10,12
To address these issues, 2 separate complementary interventions to promote infant safe sleep practices were developed. A nursing quality improvement (NQI) intervention targeted initial adherence,13 and a mobile health (mHealth)
messaging intervention was aimed at promoting continued adherence during the first 2 months of the infant’s life.14,15 These
interventions were designed to use strategies that could be
widely implemented in a cost-effective manner if they are
proven effective. All interventions were branded with a name,
logo, and tagline (TodaysBaby: Helping You Make the Best
Choices for Your Baby).
The Social Media and Risk-Reduction Training (SMART)
study, a 4-group cluster randomized clinical trial (RCT), was
designed to assess these safe sleep interventions with similar
breastfeeding interventions used as controls.

Methods
Study Population
Recruitment
Mothers of healthy term infants were recruited from 16 US hospitals that were selected from a nationally representative
sample of 32 hospitals with more than 100 deliveries annually (the hospitals are listed at the end of this article). The hospitals were selected based on their history of successful recruitment for the Study of Attitudes and Factors Effecting
Infant Care Practices (SAFE), a national study of infant care
practices,16-18 and their prestudy rates of parental adherence
to infant care practice recommendations. The trial protocol appears in Supplement 1.
Due to the known racial/ethnic disparities in adherence
to safe sleep recommendations,19 hospitals were provided
target recruitment numbers for Hispanic, non-Hispanic black,
and mothers of all other race/ethnicities in a manner identical to the strategy used in the SAFE study.16-18 Race/ethnicity
was self-reported using fixed categories from which to select.
Institutional review board approval was obtained from
352

Key Points
Question Will 2 separate, complementary interventions (nursing
quality improvement intervention and mobile health intervention)
promote safe infant sleep practices?
Findings In a 4-group cluster randomized clinical trial with 1263
families, mothers who received a mobile health intervention with
regular text or email messages and videos reported statistically
significantly higher rates of placing their infants supine to sleep
compared with mothers who received control interventions
(adjusted prevalence, 89.1% vs 80.2%, respectively), room sharing
without bed sharing (82.8% vs 70.4%), no soft bedding use
(79.4% vs 67.6%), and any pacifier use (68.5% vs 59.8%).
A nursing quality improvement intervention did not influence
infant safe sleep practices.
Meaning A mobile health intervention improved adherence with
infant safe sleep practices. Whether widespread use of this type of
intervention is feasible and reduces sudden and unexpected infant
death rates remains to be studied.

Boston University, Yale University, the University of Virginia,
and all participating hospitals.
Randomization
A cluster randomized approach allowed hospitalwide implementation of the interventions. Sixteen hospitals were divided into 4 groups that were balanced based on prestudy rates
of infant care (sleep and feeding) practices and geographic location. Each group of hospitals was randomly assigned by computer-generated random numbers using a blocked randomization scheme to 1 of the following 4 intervention combinations:
(1) breastfeeding NQI and breastfeeding mHealth; (2) safe sleep
NQI and breastfeeding mHealth; (3) breastfeeding NQI and safe
sleep mHealth; or (4) safe sleep NQI and safe sleep mHealth.
Enrollment
Enrollment at each hospital began after a median of 86 days
(range, 20-149 days) following NQI completion so that the hospitals could begin enrollment in a rolling fashion between
March 2015 and May 2016. All mothers were enrolled during
the hospitalization for the birth. Mothers were excluded if they
were non-English speaking, did not live in the United States,
did not have custody of the infant, or could not receive daily
email or text messages. Other exclusions included if the infant required hospitalization for more than 3 days, had contraindications to breast milk feeding (ie, feeding directly on the
breast or drinking pumped breast milk) or following safe sleep
guidelines, or was deceased.

Data Collection
After written informed consent was obtained, mothers provided demographic and contact information and were oriented to their preferred email or text message platform. Using
procedures identical to those used in the SAFE study,16-18 mothers completed a survey that asked about sleep and feeding practices when the infant was aged 60 days or older. Although there
was an emphasis on study completion before the infant was

JAMA July 25, 2017 Volume 318, Number 4 (Reprinted)

© 2017 American Medical Association. All rights reserved.

Downloaded from jamanetwork.​com by University of Arizona Health Sciences Library user on 08/​20/​2026

jama.com

