Effect of Quality Improvement and Mobile Health Interventions on Infant Sleep

Original Investigation Research

aged 150 days, mothers received reminders to complete the
survey until the infant was aged 240 days. Data collection
ended in October 2016.

3 minutes long). Within 24 hours, participants began receiving email or text messages (based on participant preference) with TodaysBaby videos (lasting 60-90 seconds long).
Messages were delivered centrally by the study data center
using proprietary platforms (Mobile Commons for text messages; iContact for email). Mothers received daily messages
and videos for the first 11 days and then every 3 to 4 days
for 60 days.

Description of Interventions
NQI Interventions
The NQI interventions were designed to ensure that mothers
would hear key messages, and that there was appropriate role
modeling by hospital personnel. Because randomization was
at the hospital level, all mothers who delivered at a given hospital were exposed during routine postpartum care to education and role modeling resulting from the assigned NQI intervention, along with any preexisting educational practices
performed at the hospital.
Mothers in all groups received basic information about
breastfeeding and safe sleep per hospital protocols, including advice to bring the infant into the parental bed for feeding, but to move the infant back into a separate sleep space
when the parent was ready for sleep, and to postpone pacifier use for directly breastfed infants until breastfeeding was
well established.
Study investigators developed the safe sleep and breastfeeding control NQI interventions using prior successful
interventions,20-23 existing curricula,24-26 prior research on
barriers to adherence,3-5,7,27 and qualitative data from focus
groups with maternity unit staff at 2 large academic hospitals (Yale New Haven Hospital and University of Virginia
Health System) as guides.
The NQI used a train-the-trainer model with local nurse
champions as coordinators, evidence-based educational materials that provided strategies for addressing barriers to safe
sleep3-5,7,27 and breastfeeding,28-32 and an emphasis on the importance of role modeling best practices. Each hospital team
decided on and implemented NQI initiatives in plan-do-studyact cycles. Following each cycle, hospital staff conducted unannounced audits in which they observed maternal practices
and asked mothers about information received from staff.
mHealth Interventions
The mHealth interventions provided ongoing messaging timed
to anticipate likely adherence challenges. Study investigators
developed health messages and educational videos to be delivered by email or text messages to parents. The health messages and educational videos were reviewed by experts in safe
sleep, breastfeeding, health education, and social marketing
and by family caregivers of newborn infants (target audience). Videos contained parent testimonials, addressed common questions and barriers to safe sleep (intervention) or
breastfeeding (control), and were delivered at times when these
issues typically arise. For instance, because concern about aspiration while an infant is placed in the supine sleep position
is a major reason for early prone placement, a video addressing this concern was among the first videos mothers were given.
Video topics appear in eTable 1 in Supplement 2.
At enrollment while in the hospital, mothers answered
questions about current infant feeding status and feeding
plans after hospitalization and viewed the first 2 TodaysBaby
videos (safe sleep or breastfeeding; each approximately
jama.com

Outcomes
The primary outcome was adherence to the following 4 infant safe sleep practice recommendations from the American
Academy of Pediatrics: (1) infant sleep position (supine vs
other), (2) infant sleep location (room sharing without bed sharing vs other), (3) pacifier use (any use vs no use), and (4) soft
bedding use (no soft bedding use vs other). Adherence was
measured by maternal responses to the survey, which asked
about usual practice during the past 2 weeks. Prespecified secondary outcomes regarding breastfeeding behavior are not reported in this article.

Statistical Methods
Sample size was determined to provide adequate power of detecting the effect of an individual intervention in the presence of an interaction. To account for the cluster randomized
design and generalized estimating equation logistic regression analysis, necessary sample size was determined through
simulation. Based on results from the SAFE study, we assumed prestudy prevalence of a safe sleep practice ranging
from 50% to 60% across hospitals.18
Because clinical trials have demonstrated modest improvements in infant safe sleep practices (increases ranging from 7%30% in supine sleep positioning and decreases ranging from
12%-28% in bed sharing14,33), we powered the study to detect
a 10 percentage point difference between 2 groups, and determined that a sample size of 1280 (320 per treatment group)
was needed for 80% power (2-sided P < .05 with a Bonferroni
adjustment for multiple comparisons). Allowing for an anticipated 20% loss to follow-up, this led to an enrollment sample
size of 1600 (400 per group).
Survey respondent and nonrespondent demographic characteristics were compared using a χ2 test. Prespecified statistical analyses evaluated the 2 study interventions (NQI and
mHealth) on the sleep outcomes. Unadjusted and adjusted
analyses, controlling for infant age and sex; mother’s age, parity, educational level, marital status, and household income;
and the baseline between-group differences were performed
using generalized estimating equation logistic regression models to account for within-hospital clustering and to allow both
individual-level and hospital-level covariates.
Prevalence of safe sleep outcomes range from approximately 60% to 90%, and the usual interpretation of odds ratios may be misleading given these common outcomes. Therefore, we converted adjusted odds ratios and 95% CIs from the
logistic regression models to adjusted risk differences and 95%
CIs using the observed prevalence in the group that received
the control for both the NQI and mHealth interventions as the
control group prevalence.
(Reprinted) JAMA July 25, 2017 Volume 318, Number 4

© 2017 American Medical Association. All rights reserved.

Downloaded from jamanetwork.​com by University of Arizona Health Sciences Library user on 08/​20/​2026

353

