Research Original Investigation

Effect of Quality Improvement and Mobile Health Interventions on Infant Sleep

than 10 percentage points. Even though improvements in
supine sleep position placement and any pacifier use were
statistically significant, these improvements did not meet
the study sample size–based minimal clinically important
difference of 10%.
The messages and videos were timed to address challenges and questions that arise at specific time points; therefore, providing this additional information to parents at critical times may have been important in assuaging concerns about
adherence to recommended practices. Furthermore, receiving frequent videos and email or text messages may have
served as a virtual support system for mothers, reinforcing safe
parental practices. Analyses of mHealth interventions for multiple health issues have found that messages tailored to clinical situations and sent on a daily to weekly basis are associated with positive effects.37
There are persistent racial/ethnic disparities with regard
to adherence to infant safe sleep practices,6,9,10,12 and this was
reflected in the rates of adherence in the control group. However, in a post hoc analysis, these disparities were no longer
significant in the group receiving both the NQI and mHealth
safe sleep interventions. This analysis should only be considered as hypothesis-generating and requires further study before reaching any conclusions.
An important goal of this study was to test interventions
that, if effective, could be implemented widely and costefficiently. Messages and scripts that could easily be incorporated in plan-do-study-act cycles to improve safe sleep teaching were developed. Furthermore, because the rates of opening
and viewing messages in this study were consistently higher
than 50% and almost all adults now have cell phones or email
access, it is likely that this type of intervention would be feasible and well received by parents. Although it may seem labor intensive to send daily messages, the email and text messages can be automated to easily reach large populations. In
addition, messages can be retrieved asynchronously when convenient to the patient.38 This study did not measure intervention costs or the efficacy for clinical end points so it is possible that the intervention may not be cost-effective.

younger, black, single, and less well educated, which are
all factors typically associated with higher rates of nonadherence with safe sleep recommendations. Although
this may indicate a lack of engagement in this subgroup,
respondents with similar demographics demonstrated
changes in practice (eTable 5 in Supplement 2). Nonetheless, other approaches may be needed to reach these
mothers. Second, because enrollment was limited to English
speakers, the results cannot be generalized to non–Englishspeaking populations. Third, the large majority of responses
(72.6%) occurred when infants were aged 8 to 12 weeks. It
will be important to assess continued adherence, particularly
as mothers return to the workplace. Fourth, this study was
not powered to assess adverse events. Fifth, this study did
not measure clinical outcomes (ie, rates of sudden unexpected infant death). Sixth, this trial has limitations inherent
in self-reporting.
Mothers who received the NQI and mHealth safe sleep
interventions may have been more reluctant to report practices inconsistent with the messages received in the interventions, which would overestimate the effect of the messaging.
However, the prestudy levels for each behavior are comparable with other studies,9,12,39 suggesting the validity of the
study methods used and the analyses adjusted for prestudy
between-group differences. Furthermore, to minimize
reporting bias, queries about infant care practices other than
sleep and feeding (eg, immunizations) were in the survey so
that specific outcome measures were less obvious. To minimize contamination of the various intervention groups, a
cluster randomization scheme that randomized by hospital
was used. Given the consistency of results across all end
points, in the different groups, and with SAFE prestudy data,
these results are likely to be valid.

Limitations
This study had several limitations. First, there was a lost to
follow-up rate of 21%. Nonrespondents were predominantly

ARTICLE INFORMATION
Accepted for Publication: June 21, 2017.
Author Contributions: Drs Heeren and Corwin had
full access to all of the data in the study and take
responsibility for the integrity of the data and the
accuracy of the data analysis.
Concept and design: Moon, Hauck, Colson, Kellams,
Geller, McClain, Corwin.
Acquisition, analysis, or interpretation of data:
Moon, Hauck, Colson, Kellams, Geller, Heeren, Kerr,
Drake, Tanabe, Corwin.
Drafting of the manuscript: Moon, Kellams, Geller.
Critical revision of the manuscript for important
intellectual content: All authors.
Statistical analysis: Heeren, Kerr, Corwin.

358

Conclusions
Among mothers of healthy term newborns, a mobile health intervention, but not a nursing quality improvement intervention, improved adherence to infant safe sleep practices compared with control interventions. Whether widespread
implementation is feasible or if it reduces sudden and unexpected infant death rates remains to be studied.

Obtained funding: Moon, Hauck, Colson, Kellams,
Corwin.
Administrative, technical, or material support:
Moon, Hauck, Kellams, Geller, Drake, Tanabe,
Corwin.
Supervision: Moon, Hauck, Colson, Corwin.
Conflict of Interest Disclosures: The authors have
completed and submitted the ICMJE Form for
Disclosure of Potential Conflicts of Interest and
none were reported.
Funding/Support: This study was funded by grant
1R01HD072815-01 from the National Institute of
Child Health and Human Development and funding
from the CJ Foundation for SIDS.
Role of the Funder/Sponsor: Neither funder had
any role in the design and conduct of the study;

collection, management, analysis, and
interpretation of the data; preparation, review, or
approval of the manuscript; and decision to submit
the manuscript for publication.
Additional Contributions: We thank the staff at
Slone Epidemiology Center, including Lisa Crowell,
RN, Taylor Platt, BA, and Dena Margolis, BA, who
assisted with study implementation and data
collection. Their salaries were paid by the grants
and they did not receive additional compensation.
We also acknowledge the study staff at the 16
participating hospitals for their role in recruitment
and data collection, which are listed by study group:
(1) breastfeeding nursing quality improvement
(NQI) and breastfeeding mobile health (mHealth)
group: Delaware County Memorial Hospital,

JAMA July 25, 2017 Volume 318, Number 4 (Reprinted)

© 2017 American Medical Association. All rights reserved.

Downloaded from jamanetwork.​com by University of Arizona Health Sciences Library user on 08/​20/​2026

jama.com

