Data Sharing Statement
Okereke. Effect of Long-Term Vitamin D3 Supplementation vs Placebo
on Risk of Depression or Clinically Relevant Depressive Symptoms and
on Change in Mood Scores. JAMA. Published August 04, 2020.
10.1001/jama.2020.10224
Data
Data available: Yes
Data types: Other (please specify)
Additional Information: We recognize and support the principles of
data sharing that have been endorsed by the NIH. We maintain a policy
that actively promotes new research collaborations that make use of
the comprehensive outcomes, covariate and blood-based biomarker
data collected during the trial, and will encourage the submission of
collaborative studies that include investigators from other departments
and institutions. We will also maintain our strong commitment to
communicate important study results to participants and the scientific
community through the regular VITAL study newsletters, published
manuscripts, presentations at national meetings, and interviews for lay
publications. The data generated from this research will be made
available to affiliated investigators through secure databases. Only
investigators with specific IRB approval will have access to any
identifiable data. The PI (olivia.okereke@mgh.harvard.edu) can be
contacted for de-identified data requests. Consent for such data
sharing was integral to enrollment in the VITAL study, and our
participants have been generous in their willingness to have their data
shared to advance health research.
How to access data: The data generated from this research will be
made available to affiliated investigators through secure databases.
Only investigators with specific IRB approval will have access to any
identifiable data. The PI (olivia.okereke@mgh.harvard.edu) can be
contacted for de-identified data requests. Consent for such data
sharing was integral to enrollment in the VITAL study, and our
participants have been generous in their willingness to have their data
shared to advance health research.
When available: beginning date: 05-01-2021
Supporting Documents
Document types: None
Additional Information
Who can access the data: The data generated from this research will

be made available to affiliated investigators through secure
databases. Only investigators with specific IRB approval will have
access to any identifiable data. The PI
(olivia.okereke@mgh.harvard.edu) can be contacted for de-identified
data requests.
T ypes of analyses: The data generated from this research will be
made available to affiliated investigators through secure databases.
Only investigators with specific IRB approval will have access to any
identifiable data. The PI (olivia.okereke@mgh.harvard.edu) can be
contacted for de-identified data requests.
Mechanisms of data availability: The data generated from this
research will be made available to affiliated investigators through
secure databases. Only investigators with specific IRB approval will
have access to any identifiable data. The PI
(olivia.okereke@mgh.harvard.edu) can be contacted for de-identified
data requests.

