Early Intratracheal Budesonide for Bronchopulmonary Dysplasia                                                                  Original Investigation Research

                    nfants born extremely preterm (<29 weeks’ gestation) or
                   with birth weight 1000 g or less are at high risk of mortal-     Key Points
                         ity and morbidity.1,2 Bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD),
                                                                                       Question Does intratracheal administration of budesonide mixed      I
                 the most common serious morbidity in such extremely pre-       with surfactant, compared with surfactant alone, reduce
                 terminfants,2isassociatedwithlong-termadverserespiratory3      bronchopulmonary dysplasia or death by 36 weeks’ postmenstrual
               and neurodevelopmental outcomes.4,5 BPD is defined by the       age in preterm infants less than 29 weeks’ gestation?
               magnitude of respiratory support and supplemental oxygen
                                                                                             Findings In this multicenter randomized trial, after recruiting 641
                  postnatally at 36 weeks’ postmenstrual age6-9 and character-        infants, recruitment was stopped early when prespecified futility
                 ized pathologically by impairment of lung development.10         criteria were satisfied. There was no difference in
                While survival of extremely preterm infants has improved in      bronchopulmonary dysplasia or death between infants receiving
                 recent decades, the incidence of BPD has stayed constant or       budesonide with surfactant (68.5%) vs those receiving surfactant
                     increased.2,11,12                                                          alone (67.9%; adjusted relative risk 1.00 [95% CI, 0.90-1.11]).
                   Inflammation due to hyperoxia, oxidative stress, ventila-      Meaning In extremely preterm infants, mixing budesonide with
                  tion-associated lung injury, and chorioamnionitis likely con-        surfactant did not reduce bronchopulmonary dysplasia or death.
                   tributes to BPD.13 Systemic corticosteroids administered soon
                    after birth (age <7 days) reduce the combined outcome of BPD
                 or death (BPD/death) before 36 weeks’ postmenstrual age but   Participants
                  also increase gastrointestinal perforation and cerebral palsy.14   Infants 22 weeks 0 days’ to 28 weeks 6 days’ gestational age
                  Direct intratracheal instillation of the corticosteroid budes-   or 401 to 1000 g birth weight were eligible after a clinical de-
                onidemixedwithsurfactantreduceslunginjuryinpretermani-   cision was made at 48 hours’ or less postnatal age to admin-
               mal models.15-17 In preterm infants, intratracheal instillation    ister surfactant. Infants were excluded if they were judged un-
                  of budesonide mixed with surfactant reduced BPD/death in   likely to survive or had a decision to redirect or limit support,
                small randomized clinical trials (RCTs)18,19 and in meta-   or there was (1) use of surfactant or systemic steroids before
                 analyses including these trials.20-22 This evidence led to the   enrollment; (2) maternal exposure to indomethacin within
                 design and implementation of 2 large multicenter trials con-  24 hours of delivery or infant exposure to indomethacin be-
                 ductednearlysimultaneouslytoevaluatethebenefitsandrisks   fore enrollment; (3) intent to use indomethacin within 7 days
                  of combining budesonide with surfactant in extremely pre-   of the last dose of study drug; (4) serious chromosomal abnor-
               term infants—the Preventing Lung Disease Using Surfac-   malityormajormalformation,knowncongenitalinfection,per-
                  tant + Steroid (PLUSS)23 and the Budesonide in Babies (BiB)  manent neuromuscular condition affecting respiration;
                      trials. The PLUSS trial (conducted in Australia, New Zealand,   or (5) enrollment in a conflicting clinical trial.
                Canada, and Singapore) found no difference in survival free
                  of BPD.23 The BiB trial reported here was conducted in the   Randomization
                United States to test the hypothesis that intratracheal admin-   Written parental informed consent was obtained before or af-
                    istration of budesonide with surfactant, vs surfactant alone,   ter birth. Study drug was administered within 50 hours after
               would reduce the frequency of physiologic BPD/death by 36   birth. Infants were stratified by study site and by gestational
                weeks’ postmenstrual age in extremely preterm infants.       age (<26 or ≥26 weeks). Multiple births were randomized in-
                                                                          dependently. Step-forward randomization was implemented
                                                                               to enable expeditious delivery room randomization, adopt-
                                                                              ing “use next” drug kits with a block urn design.25,26 Based on
            Methods
                                                                         a DCC-generated randomization schedule, drug kits of budes-
                     Trial Design and Oversight                                 onide respules or sham (empty respules) were randomized, as-
              The BiB trial was a multicenter, double-masked RCT with 1:1   sembled, masked, and labeled by the investigational drug/
                    parallel allocation to budesonide with surfactant (poractant   research pharmacy at each site, then stored in a location that
                     alfa) or surfactant alone (protocol available as Supplement 1;   permitted rapid access by the respiratory therapist or desig-
               Manual of Operations available as Supplement 2). BiB was con-   nee. Drug kits were added to the queue such that there were 3
                 ductedintheEuniceKennedyShriverNationalInstituteofChild   or more sets of kits available for each gestational stratum at
                Health and Human Development Neonatal Research Net-   any given time. Two drug kits were prepared for each random-
              work under an Investigational New Drug application (142279)   izationnumberincaseaseconddosewasneeded.Infantswere
                approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The   considered randomized when the masked drug kit was opened
                      trial was approved by institutional review boards at each cen-   immediately before treatment administration. Infants of mul-
                      ter. RTI International was the data coordinating center (DCC).    tiple gestations were randomized separately. Infants were ran-
                TheindependentNRNdataandsafetymonitoringboard,incol-   domized 1:1 to either budesonide (0.25 mg/kg; 1 mL/kg) mixed
                  laboration with the DCC, conducted interim analyses after the   with surfactant (poractant alfa [2.5 mL/kg]) (intervention) or
                       first 40 infants reached the primary outcome and after 25%   to surfactant (2.5 mL/kg) alone (active comparator).
               and 50% of patients reached this milestone to assess safety,
                    efficacy, and/or futility (statistical analysis plan available as   Interventions
               Supplement 3). This report follows the CONSORT (Consoli-   Thestudydrugwasadministeredthroughanendotrachealtube.
                dated Standards of Reporting Trials) guideline.24             Minimally invasive or less invasive surfactant administration

                    jama.com                                                                             (Reprinted) JAMA  October 28, 2025  Volume 334, Number 16    1453

        © 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.

Downloaded from jamanetwork.com by University of Arizona Health Sciences Library user on 07/23/2026
