Research  Original Investigation                                                                  Early Intratracheal Budesonide for Bronchopulmonary Dysplasia

              was not used for the trial because it is not an FDA-approved   other adverse event deemed moderate or worse in severity.
              method of surfactant administration. A maximum of 2 doses of   Moderate hyperglycemia was defined as blood glucose level
                studydrugcouldbeadministeredbefore50hourspostnatalage,   120 mg/dL (6.66 mmol/L) to 180 mg/dL (9.99 mmol/L) on
                withtheseconddosecontainingbudesonide(1mL/kg)andsur-   2 consecutive determinations at least 6 hours apart or more
                   factant (1.25 mL/kg). The study drug was administered by an   than 2 determinations within a 24-hour period with no in-
              unmasked (due to need for mixing of study drug) respiratory   between normal range values. Severe hyperglycemia was de-
                  therapistorqualifieddesigneeoutofsightofotherstaff,soother   fined as blood glucose level greater than 180 mg/dL. Sponta-
                  caregivers and researchers remained masked to treatment al-   neous intestinal perforation and periventricular leukomalacia
                   location. Infants receiving more than 2 surfactant doses within   within 30 days of final drug administration were also moni-
              50 hours after birth could receive additional doses of open-   tored as prespecified adverse events. Several risks of prema-
                   label surfactant at clinician discretion.                            turity were monitored within 7 days of last study drug (hypo-
                     Administration of systemic steroids within less than 7 days   tension, pulmonary air leak, culture-positive sepsis, and
                  of last dose of study drug was discouraged and reserved at cli-   intracranial hemorrhage).
                  nician discretion for infants with fluid-resistant/vasopressor-
                resistanthypotensionorevidenceofhyponatremiawithlowse-   Sample Size Estimation and Statistical Analysis
                  rumcortisolconcentration(perlocaldefinitions).Otherclinical  A detailed statistical analysis plan for the BiB trial is available
                  practiceswereperusualclinicalprotocolandclinicianpreference.   in Supplement 3.
                                                                     Sample size calculations were based on the primary out-
              Outcomes                                            come. Based on the 20% or greater absolute risk reduction ob-
              The primary outcome was the composite of physiologic   served by prior RCTs18,19 and the observed incidence of BPD
                  BPD6,27,28 or death by 36 weeks’ postmenstrual age. Physi-   or death of 58% at participating sites, BiB was designed to de-
                  ologic BPD was defined as receiving mechanical ventilation or   tect an absolute risk reduction of 10% (from 58% to 48%), cor-
                continuous positive airway pressure, oxygen by hood at frac-   responding to a relative risk (RR) of 0.83. Simulation studies
                  tion of inspired oxygen (FIO2) greater than 0.3, oxygen by na-   for the primary analysis method indicated that a sample size
                 salcannulaataneffectiveFIO2greaterthan0.3(calculatedusing   of 550 per group (1100 total) would attain 90% power for an
                 conversion tables), or failing oxygen reduction challenge from   overall type I error of .05. Accounting for 5% attrition for the
                  FIO2 less than 0.3 by hood or effective FIO2 less than 0.3 by can-   primary outcome, the planned sample size was 1160 infants.
                nula (eAppendix in Manual of Operations and Generic Data-      The primary analysis compared the proportion of infants
                base Manual [Supplement 2]; adjudication was not necessary  who died or developed BPD at 36 weeks’ postmenstrual age
                 forthisvalidateddefinition).Infantsdischargedhomeortrans-   using a robust Poisson regression model.29,30 Randomization
                ferredoutofnetworkbefore36weeks’postmenstrualagewere   stratification factors of center and gestational age (<26 or ≥26
                 assessed for physiologic BPD based on the level of respiratory   weeks) were included as fixed explanatory variables in the
                support at discharge or transfer.                          model. The primary outcome analysis was performed at
                  Secondary outcomes assessed at 36 weeks’ postmen-   α = .049 to adjust for multiplicity of interim efficacy analyses
                  strual age included death; physiologic BPD; BPD severity   and preserve an overall type I error rate of α = .05. Analyses
                    (ordinal)7; grade 3 BPD7; and postnatal steroid use from 7 days   of the primary, secondary and exploratory efficacy out-
                   after last dose of study drug through 36 weeks’ postmen-  comes were based on intention-to-treat (ITT), unless other-
                   strual age.                                            wise specified. In contrast, safety, clinical, and growth
                    Multiple exploratory outcomes were also evaluated   outcomes were analyzed based on actual treatment received
                  (Protocol in Supplement 1): BPD severity by the National Insti-   (“as-treated”population).Secondaryandexploratorydichoto-
                  tutes of Health Workshop definition9; days receiving mechani-  mous outcomes were analyzed with the robust Poisson
                 calventilationby28postnataldays;daysreceivinginvasiveme-  methods described for the primary outcome. For models
                 chanicalventilationby36weeks’postmenstrualage;intubation   with convergence or fit issues, the RR was estimated by the
                    after 50 postnatal hours and within the first 28 days; intuba-   Mantel-Haenszel common odds ratio, stratified by the cross-
                tionafter50hoursandbefore36weeks’postmenstrualage;and   classification of center and gestational age strata, or by the
                 repeat administration of surfactant doses after 50 hours and   crude odds ratio (unadjusted) and Fisher exact test. Continu-
                 within 7 days of last dose of study drug. Additional outcomes   ous outcomes estimated adjusted mean difference via linear
                 analyzed include common clinical outcomes assessed through   regression; count outcomes were analyzed as continuous out-
                120postnataldaysandstandardizedgrowthmetricsat36weeks’  comes using robust variance estimation. Comparisons of sec-
                postmenstrual age. Analyses of survival without physiologic   ondary outcomes between study groups should be consid-
                BPDat36weeks’postmenstrualagewereconductedwithinsub-   ered exploratory.
                groups defined by baseline characteristics.
                     Prespecified adverse events (defined in the protocol in
               Supplement 1 and Manual of Operations in Supplement 2)
                                                                  Results
                considered likely to be associated with study intervention
               were monitored within 7 days of last dose of study drug. These    Trial Population
                included hyperglycemia, hypertension, prolonged hypox-   Patients were randomized from April 2021 to June 2024. When
               emia with bradycardia, endotracheal tube blockage, and any   641 infants (55.3% of 1160 planned) had been enrolled from

           1454   JAMA  October 28, 2025  Volume 334, Number 16  (Reprinted)                                                                       jama.com

        © 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.

Downloaded from jamanetwork.com by University of Arizona Health Sciences Library user on 07/23/2026
