                                             CALGB 70807


           efficacy, even after delay, is relatively high. Patient anxiety is a prominent yet
           XQGHUVWXGLHG FRPSODLQW DPRQJ $6 SDWLHQWV GLHW FKDQJH PD\ GHFUHDVH SURVWDWH-cancer
           related anxiety among these patients. Further study of diagnosis-related anxiety will yield
           potentially important information for improving the psychological care of prostate cancer
           patients.

    1.6    Pilot Data Supporting Dietary Intervention: The Women’s Healthy Eating and Living
           (WHEL) Study for Breast Cancer
           A CALGB pilot study demonstrated the feasibility of implementing dietary changes among
           cancer patients in the Women’s Healthy Eating and Living study (WHEL), a multi-center
           trial of diet change for breast cancer (40-42,64). Utilizing well-established behavior
           change techniques, this intervention achieved substantial changes in vegetable, fiber and
           fruit consumption, along with a substantial change in fat consumption (64).
           The dietary intervention we developed employs telephone-based communication. The
           conceptual framework of the intervention is derived from Social Cognitive Theory (54),
           which emphasizes strengthening of individual self-regulatory skills, including goal-
           setting, self-monitoring and evaluative judgments. We utilize lay coaches to help
           participants frame options for decisions. The coaches focus on self-efficacy, or participant
           belief that they can actually succeed in behavior change (64, 65). The lay coaches also
           provide a supportive environment for regular discussion of triumphs and failures as
           participants seek to change. The lay coaches are well versed in basic nutrition, and they
           DUH VXSHUYLVHG E\ H[SHULHQFHG DQG NQRZOHGJHDEOH GLHWLWLDQV QRQHWKHOHVV WKH\ IXQFWLRQ
           less as authority figures than as facilitators or guides, and as supporters, helping
           participants optimize their options as they proceed through change (66).
           The intervention efforts are timed so that they provide the greatest support and guidance
           when the challenges of change, hence the threats of failure, are greatest: at the beginning
           (65). We have demonstrated that major changes can be implemented during the first
           month of the intervention (40-42, 65). The subsequent challenge is to integrate change
           into the participant lifestyle, then to reinforce and maintain the change. The counselors
           during this time watch for signs that participant self-HIILFDF\ LV ZDQLQJ GHFOLQLQJ VHOI-
           efficacy may be an indicator that failure is increasingly likely (65). We have shown that
           this approach results in substantial dietary change that can be maintained for several
           years (67).
           This telephone-based approach has been shown to result in change that can be seen in
           accepted biomarkers of nutritional practice (40-42). Carotenoids, which are fat-soluble
           pigments found almost exclusively in vegetables and fruits, accumulate in blood. The
           most common of these, alpha carotene, beta-carotene, lutein, lycopene and crytoxanthin,
           reflecting the intake of a wide range of plants, were used as general biomarkers of plant
           intake (65). The WHEL study intervention, on which our pilot trial was based, caused the
           diets and blood carotenoids of 1500 experimental subjects and 1500 control subjects to
           GLYHUJHVXEVWDQWLDOO\ZLWKLQD\HDURIEHJLQQLQJWKHLQWHUYHQWLRQDIWHUthat, we observed,
           over a period of 3 to 4 years, a slight decline in the difference between the dietary
           practices of experimental and control subjects (66). Nonetheless, experimental subjects in
           the WHEL study spent the bulk of their study participation time consuming a diet that
           was radically different than both their pre-enrollment diet and that of comparison
           subjects.
           $QXDQFHRIGLHWFKDQJHWULDOVLVWKDWVXEMHFWVDUHQRWEOLQGHGWRWKHLUDVVLJQPHQWWKXV
           there is always a possibility that subject behavior will be changed by subject knowledge of
           intervention. In particular, experimental subjects may be inclined to exaggerate their
           compliance with diet goals. Subjects cannot, however, readily exaggerate their blood
           carotenoid levels except by changing their diet. These are integrated over an extended
           period, and experimental subjects are unlikely to change these other than by changing
           their diet.
           While it is certainly true that any methodology involving prospective dietary change poses
           challenges, the WHEL data, and the to-be discussed MEAL data, indicate that we can


Version Date 09/26/18                                                                           Update #10
                                                    9
