                                            CALGB 70807


           Blood Sample Submission (12, 24 Months)
           Six-hour fasting blood samples will be collected at preregistration, 12 and 24 months and
           will be submitted to the Alliance Biorepository at Ohio State University (see Section 6.2.1)
           and analyzed for carotenoid and cholesterol concentrations.
           Quality of Life Instruments (Every 6 Months)
           Seven quality of life measures will be used: Personal Habits Questionnaire will be
           completed at pre-registration only, the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy Scale-
           Prostate (FACT-3  0HPRULDO $Q[LHW\ 6FDOH IRU 3URVWDWH &DQFHU 0D[-3&  ,QWHUQDWLRQDO
           3URVWDWH 6\PSWRP 6FRUH ,366  ([SDQGHG 3URVWDWH &DQFHU ,QGH[ &RPSRVLWH  (3,&-
             DQG WKH 1XWULWLRQ 6HOI–Efficacy will be completed at preregistration and every 6
           months. Finally, the MEAL Study Counseling Evaluation Form will be completed at 12
           and 24 months (see Section 9.0).

    8.5    Dietary Recall
           Diets will be evaluated at baseline and at 12 and 24 months by a series of three separate
           24-hour dietary recalls collected interactively via telephone interview conducted by the
           Moores Cancer staff. These telephone interviews will last approximately 20 minutes.
           Patient recalls will be performed on three randomly selected days over a three-week
           period and include two weekdays (Monday through Thursday) and one weekend (Friday
           through Sunday). Data will be catalogued and analyzed utilizing Minnesota Nutrition
           Data System (NDS) software (Nutrition Coordinating Center, University of Minnesota).

    8.6    Telephone Counseling Intervention (Arm A Only)
           The counseling intervention will be divided into four phases, with the first three phases
           completed in 7 months. The fourth phase will continue for 17 months. Each counseling
           call will take an average of 30 minutes.
           Phase I: The first phase, composed of six counseling calls, will focus on education and
           the rapid development of self-efficacy skills. During this phase, frequent counseling
           sessions (every 3-4 days) will focus on short-term goals, emphasizing to participants and
           partners that the study dietary pattern can be compatible with their lifestyle. The
           counselor will monitor self-reported dietary intake interactively using dietary analysis
           software (The Food Processor for Windows, Version 7.8, ESHA Research, Salem, OR) to
           help the participant evaluate his performance and encourage him to concentrate on the
           positive aspects of his achievements before setting new sub-goals. Throughout this phase
           (and all other phases), counselors will encourage participants to report any difficulties in
           adopting the dietary pattern, and dietary targets will be adjusted accordingly to maximize
           chances of success.
           Phase 2: The second phase, composed of four calls over a 2-month period, will focus on
           practical and consistent implementation of the dietary pattern. Counselors will help
           participants make structural changes to their food environments, such as altering the
           type of food available in the house, modifying recipes and patterns of food preparation,
           and focusing on portion sizes. Participants will learn to monitor their performance
           regularly, as counselors encourage goal setting and review.
           Phase 3: The third phase, composed of four calls over a 4-month period, will help
           participants habituate to the dietary pattern by providing regular performance reviews.
           Studies of behavior change demonstrate that a declining sense of self-efficacy is
           associated with vulnerability to relapse. During this phase, social guidance and
           assistance in evaluating performance will be used to maintain interest in behavior
           maintenance, even as the level of necessary social guidance declines.
           Phase 4: The counselors will regularly check on progress (8 calls over a 17-month
           period), providing positive feedback on achievements in maintaining the study targets
           while monitoring for warning signs of declining interest or self-efficacy. Ensuring
           participants that they can maintain the change they have implemented will still be
           critical. Intervention contacts will take place once every other month by those in Arm A
           only.

Version Date 09/26/18                                                                        Update #10
                                                  27
