Research Original Investigation

High-Flow Nasal vs Standard Oxygen in Immunocompromised Patients With Acute Respiratory Failure

S

urvival with immune deficiencies is increasingly
common,1 owing to the increasing life expectancy after
cancer2 and expanding use of transplantation3 and immunosuppressant drugs.4 In immunocompromised patients,
intensive treatments improve survival2 but only at the cost of
life-threatening events, chiefly affecting the lungs.5 Acute hypoxemic respiratory failure (AHRF) in immunocompromised
patients, the first reason for intensive care unit (ICU) admission,6,7 is still associated with high mortality rates.5 Need
for invasive mechanical ventilation (IMV) is a key prognostic
factor in immunocompromised patients, and avoiding IMV has
become a major treatment goal. However, no survival benefit
of noninvasive ventilation (NIV) compared with standard oxygen therapy was reported from a multicenter randomized clinical trial (RCT),8 in contrast to an earlier single-center study.9
High-flow nasal oxygen therapy, which delivers warm and
humidified oxygen through a nasal cannula, has shown conflicting results regarding its benefit over standard oxygen
therapy in RCTs. Although high-flow oxygen therapy significantly increased the number of ventilator-free days and decreased day-90 mortality in patients with AHRF,10 this was not
confirmed in immunocompromised patients, based on 2 post
hoc analyses of RCTs.11,12 Moreover, high-flow oxygen therapy
failed to improve comfort, dyspnea, or thirst compared with
a Venturi mask in a pilot multicenter RCT.13 Thus, uncertainty remains about whether benefits can be expected from
high-flow oxygen therapy in immunocompromised patients
with AHRF.
The HIGH multicenter RCT was designed to test the hypothesis that high-flow oxygen therapy, compared with standard oxygen therapy, decreases all-cause day-28 mortality in
critically ill immunocompromised patients with AHRF.14

Key Points
Question In immunocompromised patients with acute hypoxemic
respiratory failure, is high-flow nasal oxygen therapy superior to
standard oxygen therapy with respect to mortality at day 28?
Findings In this randomized clinical trial that included 776
critically ill immunocompromised patients receiving at least
6 L/min of oxygen, high-flow oxygen therapy compared with
standard oxygen therapy did not significantly reduce day-28
mortality (35.6% vs 36.1%, respectively).
Meaning Among immunocompromised patients with acute
respiratory failure, high-flow oxygen therapy did not significantly
reduce mortality compared with standard oxygen therapy.

ing or respiratory distress; need for oxygen flow of 6 L/min or
greater; known immunosuppression, defined as use of longterm (>3 months) or high-dose (>0.5 mg/kg/d) steroids, use of
other immunosuppressant drugs, solid organ transplantation, solid tumor requiring chemotherapy in the last 5 years,
hematologic malignancy regardless of time since diagnosis
and received treatments, or primary immune deficiency; and
written informed consent from the patient or proxy. Patients
with AIDS were not eligible.
Exclusion criteria were imminent death; refusal of study
participation by the patient; anatomical factors precluding
the use of a nasal cannula; hypercapnia indicating NIV (PaCO2
≥50 mm Hg); isolated cardiogenic pulmonary edema indicating NIV; pregnancy or breastfeeding; absence of coverage by
the French statutory health care insurance system; and surgery within the last 6 days.

Randomization

Methods
Study Design and Oversight
From May 19, 2016, to December 31, 2017, this randomized,
parallel-group trial was conducted in 32 hospitals in France
(24 university-affiliated and 8 non–university-affiliated) belonging to the Groupe de Recherche Respiratoire en Réanimation Onco-Hématologique (GRRR-OH). The study protocol was
approved by the CPP Ile de France IV St-Louis ethics committee(March3,2016,#NIRB00003835/2016/08)andFrenchhealth
authorities (Agence Nationale de Sécurité du Médicament et des
Produits de Santé, EudraCT2016-A00220-51). The protocol and
statistical analysis plan have been published14 and are also available in Supplement 1. The trial was overseen by an independent data and safety monitoring board. Written informed consent was obtained from all patients or their proxies.

Patients
Patients were recruited in 32 ICUs having experience and
expertise with immunocompromised patients and respiratory care strategies.8,15 Eligibility criteria were ICU admission;
age 18 years or older; AHRF with PaO2 less than 60 mm Hg or
oxygen saturation by pulse oximetry (SpO2) less than 90% on
room air, or tachypnea greater than 30/min or labored breath2100

Eligible patients were included by investigators in each ICU, then
randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio to either high-flow oxygen
therapy or standard oxygen therapy throughout the ICU stay.
Randomization was stratified on study center, oxygen flow rate
at randomization (>9 L/min vs ≤9 L/min), need for vasopressors, and time since ICU admission (≤2 vs ≥3 days), based on preestablished lists with permutation blocks having a fixed size of
4; block size was concealed. Randomization was achieved using
an electronic system incorporated in the electronic case report
form to ensure allocation concealment. The nature of the intervention precluded blinding of patients and health care staff.
Baseline was defined as time of randomization.

Treatments
All management decisions other than oxygen therapy were
made by the managing physicians according to standard practice in each ICU. All patients in both groups received the best
standard of care according to local management protocols.
The randomly allocated treatment (high-flow oxygen therapy
or standard oxygen therapy) was started within 15 minutes after
randomization.
In the intervention group, oxygen was delivered only by
continuous high-flow oxygen therapy, initiated at 50 L/min and
100% fraction of inspired oxygen (FIO2), with a subsequent flow
rate increase to achieve SpO2 of 95% or greater, up to at least

JAMA November 27, 2018 Volume 320, Number 20 (Reprinted)

© 2018 American Medical Association. All rights reserved.

Downloaded from jamanetwork.​com by University of Arizona Health Sciences Library user on 08/​20/​2026

jama.com

