High-Flow Nasal vs Standard Oxygen in Immunocompromised Patients With Acute Respiratory Failure

50 L/min within the first 3 days then up to 60 L/min as needed.
Fraction of inspired oxygen was tapered as possible while maintaining SpO2 of 95% or greater. In patients who required IMV,
high-flow oxygen therapy was used during laryngoscopy and
immediately after extubation. Patients with discomfort from
high-flow oxygen therapy had their flow rate decreased until
the discomfort resolved. Standard oxygen therapy was used
in this group only if the nasal cannula generated significant discomfort or skin breakdown, in which case a Venturi mask was
used until high-flow oxygen therapy could be tolerated again.
Criteria for weaning off high-flow oxygen therapy were improvement in clinical signs of respiratory distress, PaO2:FIO2
ratio greater than 300, and ability to maintain SpO2 of 95% or
greater with less than 6 L/min of standard oxygen therapy. After weaning, patients whose oxygen flow was 6 L/min or greater
at any time were returned to high-flow oxygen therapy.
In the standard oxygen therapy (control) group, oxygen was
delivered via any device or combination of devices used for
standard care (nasal prongs or mask with or without a reservoir bag and with or without a Venturi system). Oxygen flow
was set to achieve SpO2 of 95% or greater. High-flow oxygen
therapy could be used only for patients with do-not-intubate
orders for whom standard oxygen therapy had failed. ICU discharge was considered when patients maintained SpO2 values of 95% or greater with less than 6 L/min oxygen.
Noninvasive ventilation has been found either nonbeneficial8 or harmful10,11,16 and was therefore used only when,
and as long as, hypercapnia or pulmonary edema were present.
In both groups, intubation decisions were based on the
therapeutic response, clinical status (including SpO2, respiratory rate, signs of respiratory distress, and bronchial secretion volume). Ventilator settings for IMV complied with the best
standard of care.17

Study Outcomes
The primary end point was overall mortality within 28 days
after randomization.
The secondary end points were the proportion of patients requiring IMV by day 28, respiratory rate (normal values, 12-20), lowest PaO2:FIO2 ratio (normal values, 500-600;
values <300 indicate severe dysfunction of gas exchange in the
lungs), patient comfort score (range, 0 [severe discomfort] to
10 [perfect comfort]), dyspnea score (range, 0 [anchor; “no
dyspnea”] to 10 [“severe dyspnea”]), ICU and hospital lengths
of stay, and incidence of ICU-acquired infections. Minimal clinically important differences were not established.
Data reported in the tables and figures were collected prospectively using an electronic case report form. No blinding
of adjudication was performed for outcome assessments.

Statistical Analysis
The protocol first submitted for the grant application was for
a noninferiority RCT with a 9% noninferiority margin and with
different secondary end points. However, based on the results of the FLORALI trial10 and as a condition of awarding the
grant, the jury requested that the study be changed to a superiority trial. The revised protocol submitted to the institutional review board has been published.14 Based on an exjama.com

Original Investigation Research

Figure 1. Flow of Patients Through the HIGH Trial
1464 Patients assessed for eligibility
686 Excluded
524 Did not meet inclusion
criteria
95 Declined to participate
67 Other reasons

778 Randomized

389 Randomized to receive highflow nasal oxygen
376 Received intervention as
randomized
13 Did not receive intervention
as randomized
1 Withdrew consent
12 Discomfort

389 Randomized to receive
standard oxygen
358 Received intervention as
randomized
31 Did not receive intervention
as randomized
1 Withdrew consent
30 Received high-flow
nasal oxygen

0 Lost to follow-up

0 Lost to follow-up

388 Included in primary analysis
1 Excluded (withdrew consent)

388 Included in primary analysis
1 Excluded (withdrew consent)

The number of patients excluded and the reasons for the exclusions were not
available in all centers.

pected 30% day-28 mortality rate in the standard oxygen
therapy group with a decrease to 20% in the high-flow oxygen therapy group11 and with α set at 5%, 779 patients (389 in
each group) were required to obtain 90% power for demonstrating an decrease in day-28 mortality.
A scheduled interim analysis was performed when 100
deaths had occurred, using the Haybittle-Peto boundary,
ie, a P value threshold of .001 for the interim analysis (because
of the risk of inflation of the type I error rate). The interim analysis was reviewed by the independent data and safety monitoring board. To assess the between-group difference in terms of
futility or efficacy, the Bayesian posterior probabilities of the
day-28 mortality rate and of the log odds ratio were computed,
using a uniform noninformative prior; no specific stopping rules
were prespecified.
The analysis used the intent-to-treat approach, ie, all patients were analyzed in the group allocated by randomization, with no exclusion after randomization except exclusions for withdrawn consent according to the French regulation
at the time. Continuous variables were described as medians
(interquartile ranges) and categorical variables as proportions. No participants were excluded from analyses because
of missing or incomplete data.
Overall mortality was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier
method, with administrative censoring of patients alive in the
ICU on day 28. The effect size was evaluated by computing
the absolute risk difference with its 95% CI and the hazard ratio (HR) with 95% CI as estimated from univariable Cox regression models; the proportional hazards assumption was checked
(P = .72), based on weighted residuals.18 The cumulative incidence of IMV (with death without IMV as a competing risk)
(Reprinted) JAMA November 27, 2018 Volume 320, Number 20

© 2018 American Medical Association. All rights reserved.

Downloaded from jamanetwork.​com by University of Arizona Health Sciences Library user on 08/​20/​2026

2101

