Research Original Investigation

High-Flow Nasal vs Standard Oxygen in Immunocompromised Patients With Acute Respiratory Failure

In the current trial, high-flow oxygen therapy compared
with standard oxygen therapy failed to decrease the intubation rate, despite producing better oxygenation. Moreover, in
agreement with results from a pilot trial in immunocompromised patients, comfort and dyspnea were not improved.13 RCTs
in unselected patients with AHRF have produced conflicting
results when high-flow oxygen therapy was used for AHRF,23
during intubation,24-26 after extubation,27-29 or after thoracic
surgery.30,31 These apparent contradictions, combined with the
lower mortality with high-flow oxygen therapy in 1 trial,10 led
to the choice of mortality as the primary end point.
This study has several limitations. First, all participating centers were located in France, raising questions about the general applicability of these findings. Second, the NIV–high-flow
oxygen therapy combination was not assessed. However, NIV
failed to provide clinical benefits in immunocompromised patients in an RCT,8 and the NIV–high-flow oxygen therapy combination was associated with increased mortality in another
RCT.10,11 Third, the lack of blinding may have affected the like-

ARTICLE INFORMATION
Accepted for Publication: October 4, 2018.
Published Online: October 24, 2018.
doi:10.1001/jama.2018.14282
Author Affiliations: Medical Intensive Care Unit
and Department of Biostatistics, APHP, Hôpital
St-Louis, Paris, France. (Azoulay, Lemiale,
Théodose, Chevret); Intensive Care Unit, Paoli
Calmettes Institut, Marseille, France (Mokart);
Critical Care Center, CHU de Lille, Lille, France
(Nseir); Medical Intensive Care Unit, Hospices Civils
de Lyon, Hôpital Edouard Herriot, Lyon, France
(Argaud); Medical Intensive Care Unit, Hôpital
Cochin, APHP, Université Paris Descartes, Paris,
France (Pène); Medical Intensive Care Unit, INSERM
U1088, Amiens University Hospital, Amiens, France
(Kontar); Medical Intensive Care Unit, André Mignot
Hospital, Versailles, France (Bruneel); Medical
Intensive Care Unit, CHU de Montpellier,
Montpellier, France (Klouche); Medical Intensive
Care Unit, La Source Hospital, CHR Orléans,
Orléans, France (Barbier); Medical Intensive Care
Unit, Hotel Dieu, CHU de Nantes, Nantes, France
(Reignier); Intensive Care Unit, Institut Gustave
Roussy, Villejuif, France (Berrahil-Meksen);
Intensive Care Unit, CHR de Metz-Thionville, Metz,
France (Louis); Department of Perioperative
Medicine, CHU Clermont-Ferrand, ClermontFerrand, France (Constantin); Medical Intensive
Care Unit and Respiratory Division, APHP, Hôpital
Pitié-Salpêtrière, Sorbonne University, Paris, France
(Mayaux, Demoule); Intensive Care Unit, Lyon Sud
Medical Center, Lyon, France (Wallet); Medical
Intensive Care Unit, CHRU, Angers, France
(Kouatchet); Intensive Care Unit, Centre Hospitalier
Métropole-Savoie, Chambery, France (Peigne);
Medical Intensive Care Unit, Hôpital Brabois,
Vandoeuvre Les Nancy, France (Perez); Medical
Intensive Care Unit, Hôpital Charles Nicolle, Rouen,
France (Girault); Montpellier University Hospital,
PhyMedExp, INSERM U-1046, CNRS 34295
Montpellier, France (Jaber); Medical Intensive Care
Unit, Avicenne University Hospital, Bobigny, France
(Oziel); Intensive Care Unit, Roubaix hospital,
Roubaix, France (Nyunga); Medical Intensive Care
Unit, CHU de Grenoble Alpes, Grenoble, France

2106

lihood of differential treatment or assessments of outcomes.
Fourth, a minimal SpO2 of 95% was targeted without having an
upper target. However, findings have strongly suggested that a
conservative protocol for oxygen therapy vs conventional
therapy resulted in lower mortality rates.32,33 Fifth, estimates
of treatment effect were not adjusted on stratification factors,
and this may have resulted in an overestimation of the P value
for the difference between end point rates in treatment groups.
Sixth, potential risk of false-positive findings attributable to repeated testing should be taken into account and results of the
secondary analyses considered as exploratory.

Conclusions
Among critically ill immunocompromised patients with
acute respiratory failure, high-flow oxygen therapy did not
significantly decrease day-28 mortality compared with standard oxygen therapy.

(Terzi); Medical Intensive Care Unit, CHU Bichat,
Paris, France (Bouadma); Intensive Care Unit,
Centre Hospitalier Départemental Les Oudairies, La
Roche Sur Yon, France (Lebert); Medical Intensive
Care Unit, Gabriel-Montpied University Hospital,
Clermont-Ferrand, France (Lautrette); Medical
Intensive Care Unit, CHU St-Antoine, Paris, France
(Bigé); Department of Anesthesia and Critical Care,
Necker Hospital, Paris, France (Raphalen);
Réanimation des Détresses Respiratoires et
Infections Sévères, Assistance Publique–Hôpitaux
de Marseille, Hôpital Nord, Aix-Marseille Université,
Faculté de Médecine, Marseille, France (Papazian);
Respiratory Intensive Care Unit, Hôpital Cochin,
Paris, France (Darmon).
Author Contributions: Dr Azoulay had full access
to all of the data in the study and takes
responsibility for the integrity of the data and the
accuracy of the data analysis. Dr Chevret conducted
and is responsible for the data analysis.
Concept and design: Azoulay, Lemiale, Mokart,
Mayaux, Kouatchet, Chevret, Demoule.
Acquisition, analysis, or interpretation of data: All
authors.
Drafting of the manuscript: Azoulay, Kontar,
Théodose, Chevret, Demoule.
Critical revision of the manuscript for important
intellectual content: Azoulay, Lemiale, Mokart,
Nseir, Argaud, Pène, Bruneel, Klouche, Barbier,
Reignier, Berrahil-Meksen, Louis, Constantin,
Mayaux, Wallet, Kouatchet, Peigne, Perez, Girault,
Jaber, Oziel, Nyunga, Terzi, Bouadma, Lebert,
Lautrette, Bigé, Raphalen, Papazian, Darmon,
Chevret, Demoule.
Statistical analysis: Lemiale, Chevret.
Obtained funding: Azoulay, Klouche, Lebert,
Demoule.
Administrative, technical, or material support:
Azoulay, Mokart, Klouche, Berrahil-Meksen,
Théodose, Oziel, Nyunga, Terzi, Chevret, Demoule.
Supervision: Azoulay, Mokart, Klouche.
Conflict of Interest Disclosures: Dr Azoulay
reported receiving travel fees from Gilead and
receiving personal fees from Gilead, Astellas,
Baxter, Alexion, and Ablynx. Dr Lemiale reported
being a member of a research group that has
received grants from Fisher & Paykel, Alexion,

Baxter, Pfizer, and Gilead. Dr Pène reported serving
on a data and safety monitoring board for the
French Ministry of Health. Dr Barbier reported
receiving consulting and speaker fees from Merck
Sharp & Dohme France and receiving conference
invitations from Pfizer. Dr Girault reported receiving
a grant and nonfinancial support from Fisher &
Paykel Healthcare. Dr Jaber reported receiving
consulting fees from Fisher & Paykel, Drager, and
Xenios. Dr Terzi reported receiving speaking fees
from Boehringer Ingelheim and Pfizer. Dr Darmon
reported receiving grants from Merck Sharp &
Dohme and Astute; receiving speaking fees from
Merck Sharp & Dohme, Astellas, and Bristol-Myers
Squibb; receiving support for organizing
educational meetings from Merck Sharp & Dohme,
Astellas, and JazzPharma; and receiving
nonfinancial support from Sanofi-Aventis. Dr
Demoule reported receiving grants from Resmed
and the French Ministry of Health; receiving
personal fees from Philips, Resmed, Baxter, and
Hamilton; and receiving nonfinancial support from
Medtronic, Philips, and Fisher & Paykel. No other
authors reported disclosures.
Funding/Support: All financial support for this
study was provided by the French Ministry of
Health (P150912 HIGH). Supplies for high-flow
oxygen therapy were provided by Fisher & Paykel
France.
Role of the Funder/Sponsor: The funders/
sponsors had no role in the design and conduct of
the study; collection, management, analysis, and
interpretation of the data; preparation, review, or
approval of the manuscript; and decision to submit
the manuscript for publication.
Disclaimer: This study was performed on behalf of
the Groupe de Recherche Respiratoire en
Réanimation Onco-Hématologique (GRRR-OH). The
study was supported by the REVA Network (Réseau
européen de recherche en Ventilation Artificielle).
Meeting Presentation: This article was presented
at the European Society of Intensive Care Medicine
Annual Congress; October 24, 2018; Paris, France.
Additional Contributions: Antoine Rabbat, MD
(Hopital Cochin, Paris, France), contributed to the
study by providing a high level of medical expertise

JAMA November 27, 2018 Volume 320, Number 20 (Reprinted)

© 2018 American Medical Association. All rights reserved.

Downloaded from jamanetwork.​com by University of Arizona Health Sciences Library user on 08/​20/​2026

jama.com

