Version Date: November 21, 2023

d. Documentation of symptoms (mapped onto the 15 SSPedi symptoms) in the
participant’s heath record; these are a set of 15 binary outcomes (assessed at
weeks 4 and 8). For each, the window is a 3-day period extending from one day
before to one day after the week 4 and 8 SSPedi time point.
e. SSPedi symptom-specific intervention performed; these are a set of 15 binary
outcomes (assessed at weeks 4 and 8). For each, the window is a 3-day period
extending from one day before to one day after the week 4 and 8 SSPedi time
point.
f. Healthcare encounters including emergency department visits, unplanned clinic
visits and unplanned hospitalizations over the 8-week period. The number of
encounters in each category and the total across categories will each be a
separate secondary outcome.
3. Exploratory outcomes: These are RE-AIM characteristics to measure reach,
effectiveness, adoption and implementation.
a. For reach, we propose to describe the baseline demographic characteristics of
eligible patients who participate and who do not participate. We will also
describe site attributes using the inner setting measures from the Consolidated
Framework for Implementation Research (CFIR) as measured at baseline.(18, 19)
This conceptual framework includes factors that may impact on intervention
implementation. These attributes include culture, culture stress, culture effort,
implementation climate, learning climate, leadership engagement and available
resources.
b. Effectiveness will be evaluated through primary and secondary outcomes as
described in list items 1 and 2 above and also by comparisons of the percentages
of patients with severely bothersome symptoms within intervention and control
sites. We will characterize adoption at intervention sites by describing
characteristics of sites and providers at those sites. Site characteristics will
include pediatric vs. mixed adult and pediatric, number of pediatric cancer
patients diagnosed annually, and percentage of patients anticipated to have
private, public or no insurance. Healthcare professional characteristics will
include number of physician and nurse practitioner full-time equivalents and
median years in practice.
c. Adoption will be assessed through the number of SSPedis per participant
completed at intervention institutions; this analysis will use duration of time on
protocol therapy as an offset. Further, we will dichotomize each participant as a
high or low SSPedi completer, with a high completer being defined as one who
completed 15 or more SSPedis. This analysis will use those who complete
protocol therapy as planned as the denominator. In addition, we will count the
number of times the institutional care pathways were clicked at intervention
sites. We will describe the total number of clicks overall and by specific care
pathway, access route (email link or QR code) and device (iPad, iPhone, Mac,
Windows or unknown).
d. Implementation outcomes will capture the percentages of intervention patients
who came off protocol therapy early and the number of all participants who
4

