Symptom Screening Linked to Care Pathways for Children with Cancer: a Cluster Randomized Trial
Study Protocol
control groups. We will enroll participants within 28 days after treatment initiation. Potential participants will be
identified by the clinical staff and recruited from the inpatient ward and outpatient clinics. Informed consent and
assent will be obtained from each participant/guardian as appropriate. Careful tracking of all newly diagnosed
patients by site clinical research associates will occur to determine how many patients are approached and
consented, and where possible, reasons for declining participation.
At the 10 intervention sites, site-specific symptom management care pathways will be adapted from
template care pathways based upon COG-endorsed CPGs for each of the 15 symptoms included in SSPedi.
Enrolled participants will be prompted to complete symptom screening three times weekly via SPARK with
corresponding feedback sent to healthcare providers. Symptom reports will contain links to care pathways for
symptom management. Active intervention will last for eight weeks starting from the date of enrollment. At the
10 control sites, participants will complete SSPedi to obtain the primary outcome at weeks 0, 4 and 8 but the
scores will not be revealed to providers and will not be linked to care pathways. Usual care will be provided to
participants at control sites and thus, there will be no study-requested routine, systematic symptom screening,
symptom feedback to providers, or linkage to care pathways. If sites already routinely perform systematic
symptom screening or use care pathways for symptom management, these may be continued but their use will
be recorded. We will contact participants to time the week 4 and 8 PROs with hospital or clinic visits. If unable
to arrange, we will use their contact information to complete the questionnaires by email, text or over the
phone.
Demographic information including age, sex, race, ethnicity, diagnosis, cancer stage, family
socioeconomic information and treatment plan will be collected at enrollment. For all participants, the following
PROs will be obtained by trained research staff at baseline, week 4 and week 8: SSPedi, PROMIS Fatigue and
the PedsQL 3.0 Acute Cancer Module (Aim 1). Data from health records (Aim 2) will be abstracted for all
enrolled participants.
Procedures at Intervention and Control Sites:
Procedures at Intervention Sites: Participants enrolled at intervention sites will be prompted to complete
symptom screening three times weekly via SPARK with corresponding feedback and links to symptom
management care pathways sent to their healthcare providers.
a) Symptom Screening using SPARK and Timing Justifications: Symptom screening using SPARK can be
performed at any time and as often as desired, but screening will be prompted three times weekly for eight
weeks. In our pilot studies, the mean time for SSPedi completion using the identical SPARK platform was 1.0
(SD=1.5) minutes and in over 1,000 children who have completed SSPedi, no child has ever stated that
SSPedi completion was distressing. The ideal frequency of symptom screening is not known; the need to
identify change in symptoms as soon as possible must be balanced against the burden of frequent screening
to children and healthcare providers. In a trial of adult oncology patients demonstrating that routine symptom
screening improved QoL, weekly email reminders were sent.17 In order to identify the ideal frequency of
symptom screening reminders, we surveyed site investigators at participating sites. The most commonly
suggested frequency was three times weekly (n=15, range 2-5 times weekly). However, it is important to stress
that three times weekly is the frequency in which we will remind participants to complete SSPedi; participants
can complete SSPedi as often as they wish including daily or more often.
Participants will be set up to use their own smart phone, tablet or computer to perform symptom
screening. If participants do not have a device, one will be loaned to them for the study duration.
b) Symptom Reports to Healthcare Providers: Each day the participant completes symptom screening
(whether prompted or unprompted), the primary healthcare team will receive an email summarizing the
symptom report and highlighting of symptoms that are “a lot” or “extremely” bothersome. Emails will include
links to the site-specific care pathways for symptom management. Patient name and date of SSPedi
completion are included in the email to ensure correct identification of the patient. Thus, patient name will exist
within the SPARK database but the system is configured such that no other site including SickKids can access
it. These approaches have been approved by the SickKids Privacy Office and IRB, and all IRBs outside of
SickKids that have participated in other SPARK studies. In terms of email communication, each hospital’s
policies will be followed. For example, at all institutions currently participating in other SPARK studies, emails
sent within that hospital’s system are considered secure and that approach is being used to transmit symptom
reports with these emails being generated from the hospital’s email domain. Some hospitals may require
Version Date: February 26, 2020
Page 3 of 12

