month who are newly diagnosed with cancer 8-18 years of age and who speak English or
Spanish. Assuming that 60% meet eligibility criteria (for example, some patients will not receive
treatment for cancer such as those with low grade brain tumors and some centers provide
consultation only services for newly diagnosed patients), and 75% agree to participate
(conservative estimate based upon other SPARK studies), we anticipate enrollment of 27
patients/month. Thus, to reach the target sample size of 444 patients, enrollment is anticipated
to be complete within 2 to 2.5 years (this allows for periods of slow enrollment such as holidays
or when research personnel have limited availability). In terms of timelines, start-up activities will
require 12 months, enrollment and follow-up of the last patient will require 24 to 36 months, data
analysis will require nine months and knowledge dissemination will be completed within three
months. Thus, the entire study will require five years to complete.
The time commitment of participants, providers and research staff is expected to be similar
to other supportive care and SPARK trials and we do not anticipate barriers with respect to
effort required. Abstraction of symptom documentation and intervention provision will be done
over a short time frame (3 days for each of two time points (weeks 4 and 8)); pilot work at The
Hospital for Sick Children has shown this workload to be modest. The PROs at weeks 4 and 8
will require <5-10 minutes to complete and can be completed electronically.
Potential Benefits and Risks to Study Participation
For participants at intervention sites, potential benefits include increased awareness of
experienced symptoms and increased guideline-concordant care to prevent and manage
symptoms. Consequently, participants may have better symptom control and QoL by
participating in this study. Even for those who decline participation in the study, establishment of
care pathways for symptom management may improve symptom control for all patients at that
site. For participants at control sites, participants may gain increased self-awareness of
symptoms by completion of PROs at weeks 0, 4 and 8.
Risks include the potential for inadvertent disclosure of personal health information although
risks should be low given the precautions instituted. Although there is a risk of distress with
symptom assessment, such an occurrence has not been observed in SSPedi studies to date.
Study participation also entails time commitment and some inconvenience to schedule the
weeks 4 and 8 PRO assessments.

Page 13 of 17

