4 and 8 PROs so that they can be completed in person during hospitalizations or clinic visits. If
unable to arrange completion of these PROs in person, we will use their contact information to
complete the questionnaires by email, text or over the phone. Data from health records (Aim 2)
will be abstracted for all enrolled participants. Relapse and cancer treatment received
information will be collected at the end of the study.
Procedures at Intervention and Control Sites:
Procedures at Intervention Sites: Participants enrolled at intervention sites will be prompted
to complete symptom screening three times weekly via SPARK with corresponding feedback
and links to symptom management care pathways sent to their healthcare providers.
a) Symptom Screening using SPARK: Symptom screening using SPARK can be performed at
any time and as often as desired, but screening will be prompted three times weekly for eight
weeks. In our pilot studies, the mean time for SSPedi completion using the identical SPARK
platform was 1.0 (SD=1.5) minutes and in over 1,000 children who have completed SSPedi, no
child has ever stated that SSPedi completion was distressing. The ideal frequency of symptom
screening is not known; the need to identify change in symptoms as soon as possible must be
balanced against the burden of frequent screening to children and healthcare providers. In order
to identify the ideal frequency of symptom screening reminders, we surveyed site investigators
at participating sites. The most commonly suggested frequency was three times weekly (n=15,
range 2-5 times weekly). However, it is important to stress that three times weekly is the
frequency in which we will remind participants to complete SSPedi; participants can complete
SSPedi as often as they wish including daily or more often.
Participants will be set up to use their own smart phone, tablet or computer to perform
symptom screening. If participants do not have a device, one will be loaned to them for the
study duration. Text message reminders will be sent from SPARK using a HIPPA-compliant
third party vendor to route the text messages. Email reminders will be sent from SPARK using
the institutional email domain or other institutionally-approved approaches where required.
b) Symptom Reports to Healthcare Providers: Each day the participant completes symptom
screening (whether prompted or unprompted) and has at least one severely bothersome
symptom, the primary healthcare team will receive an email summarizing the symptom report
and highlighting symptoms that are “a lot” or “extremely” bothersome. Emails will include links to
the site-specific care pathways for symptom management. Patient name and date of SSPedi
completion are included in the email to ensure correct identification of the patient. Thus, patient
name will exist within the SPARK database but the system is configured such that no other site
including The Hospital for Sick Children can access it. These approaches have been approved
by The Hospital for Sick Children’s Privacy Office and IRB, and all IRBs of institutions that have
participated in other SPARK studies. In terms of email communication, each hospital’s policies
will be followed. At some hospitals, emails sent internally within the hospital are considered
secure. In this case, SPARK emails will be generated from that hospital’s email domain if
possible. Some hospitals may require encrypted emails; these will be used where required.
Other approaches will be instituted where required.
Qualitative feedback from providers receiving these reports in our pilot study has been
positive. When specifically asked, receiving these reports was not considered burdensome. In
fact, providers found reports helpful to communicate symptom experience and to initiate or
escalate symptom management interventions.
c) Creation of Local Care Pathways for Symptom Management: Care pathway templates for
symptom management have been drafted for each of the 15 items included in SSPedi. These
are primarily based on COG-endorsed CPGs and other CPGs that were developed using
appropriate methodology. To supplement SSPedi symptom care pathway templates for which

Page 5 of 17

