Symptom Screening Linked to Care Pathways for Children with Cancer: a Cluster Randomized Trial
Study Protocol
Next, we conducted a multi-center study in the US and Canada to evaluate the psychometric properties of
SSPedi. SSPedi was shown to be reliable (internal consistency and test re-test and inter-rater reliability), valid
(construct validity) and responsive to change in 502 English-speaking children 8-18 years of age receiving
cancer therapies.3 More specifically, the intraclass correlation coefficients (ICC) were 0.88 (95% CI 0.82 to
0.92) for test re-test reliability, and 0.76 (95% CI 0.71 to 0.80) for inter-rater reliability between children and
parents. Mean difference in SSPedi scores between groups hypothesized to be more and less symptomatic
was 7.8 (95% CI 6.4 to 9.2; P<0.001).3 Construct validity was demonstrated as all hypothesized relationships
among measures were observed. SSPedi was responsive to change; those who reported they were much
better or worse on a global symptom change scale had significantly changed from their baseline score (mean
absolute difference 5.6, 95% CI 3.8 to 7.5; P<0.001). This instrument has been translated into Spanish; the
translated version is satisfactory to use in the US and Canada based on understandability and cultural
relevance.
Building upon SSPedi, SPARK is a web-based application that consists of two components: (1) a
symptom screening component centered on SSPedi; and (2) a supportive care CPG component. While SSPedi
asks children about symptoms, SPARK facilitates access to SSPedi, encourages symptom screening,
generates reports and allows children to track their symptoms. In addition, when used by healthcare providers,
SPARK links the symptoms identified using SSPedi with CPGs to manage them. CPGs contained within
SPARK are those endorsed by the Children’s Oncology Group (COG) and thereby meet minimum specific
criteria with respect to methodological rigor and relevance to pediatric oncology.23
AIMS
Aims 1 and 2: Among children with newly diagnosed cancer, determine if symptom feedback to healthcare
providers given at least three times weekly using SPARK and locally-adapted symptom management care
pathways based on CPGs, when compared with usual care:
Aim 1. Improves overall self-reported symptom scores (total SSPedi score), fatigue (PROMIS–Fatigue) and
cancer-specific QoL (PedsQL 3.0 Acute Cancer Module) over 8 weeks
Hypothesis: Symptom screening and care pathways will improve symptoms, fatigue and QoL
Aim 2. Improves symptom documentation, increases provision of interventions for symptoms, and reduces
emergency department visits and unplanned clinic visits and hospitalizations over 8 weeks
Hypotheses: Symptom screening and care pathways will increase symptom documentation and
provision of interventions for symptoms, and will reduce healthcare utilization.
Aim 3: As an exploratory aim, we will evaluate key elements of the intervention related to the external validity
and generalizability of the intervention effects using the RE-AIM framework.
METHODS
Overall Strategy
This is a cluster randomized trial including 20 pediatric oncology sites, each with a history of excellent
accrual to supportive care trials, with geographic variation and representativeness among ethnic minority
groups. Sites will be randomized to either systematic symptom screening via SPARK with provision of
symptom reports to healthcare providers containing links to care pathways for symptom management
(intervention) vs. usual care (control).
Research Methods
Eligibility: We will include children with cancer who: (1) are 8-18 years of age at enrollment (SSPedi is
validated in this age range); (2) are English or Spanish-speaking (all PROs are validated in these languages in
this age range); (3) have any newly diagnosed cancer; (4) have a plan for any chemotherapy, radiotherapy or
surgery; and (5) enroll within 28 days after treatment initiation. Exclusion criteria will be cognitive disability
(attending minimum second grade or equivalent) or visual impairment (cannot see SPARK even with corrective
lens).
Procedures: In this cluster randomized trial, we will randomize participating sites to either intervention or
Version Date: February 26, 2020
Page 2 of 12

