headache, other pain, tingling or numbness, throwing up, hunger changes, taste changes,
constipation and diarrhea. We developed SSPedi because our previous work concluded that
then-available pediatric cancer symptom assessment tools were not appropriate for clinical use
due to length or content.20 Items were generated using a nominal group technique among
pediatric cancer clinicians and a patient advocate.20 Next, based upon input from 50 children
receiving cancer treatments and 20 parents of pediatric oncology patients, we refined the paper
and electronic versions of SSPedi and confirmed content validity, understandability and ease of
use.20-22 The electronic version of SSPedi has an audio feature that allows specific questions or
the entire instrument to be read aloud. A help feature provides synonyms for each symptom;
these were derived from children themselves during cognitive interviews.
Next, we conducted a multi-center study in the US and Canada to evaluate the
psychometric properties of SSPedi. SSPedi was shown to be reliable (internal consistency and
test re-test and inter-rater reliability), valid (construct validity) and responsive to change in 502
English-speaking children 8-18 years of age receiving cancer therapies.3 More specifically, the
intraclass correlation coefficients (ICC) were 0.88 (95% CI 0.82 to 0.92) for test re-test reliability,
and 0.76 (95% CI 0.71 to 0.80) for inter-rater reliability between children and parents. Mean
difference in SSPedi scores between groups hypothesized to be more and less symptomatic
was 7.8 (95% CI 6.4 to 9.2; P<0.001).3 Construct validity was demonstrated as all hypothesized
relationships among measures were observed. SSPedi was responsive to change; those who
reported they were much better or worse on a global symptom change scale had significantly
changed from their baseline score (mean absolute difference 5.6, 95% CI 3.8 to 7.5; P<0.001).
This instrument has been translated into Spanish; the translated version is satisfactory to use in
the US and Canada based on understandability and cultural relevance.
Building upon SSPedi, SPARK is a web-based application that consists of two components:
(1) a symptom screening component centered on SSPedi; and (2) a supportive care CPG
component. While SSPedi asks children about symptoms, SPARK facilitates access to SSPedi,
encourages symptom screening, generates reports and allows children to track their symptoms.
In addition, when used by healthcare providers, SPARK links the symptoms identified using
SSPedi with CPGs to manage them. CPGs contained within SPARK are those endorsed by the
Children’s Oncology Group (COG) and thereby meet minimum specific criteria with respect to
methodological rigor and relevance to pediatric oncology.23
AIMS
Aims 1 and 2: Among children with newly diagnosed cancer, to determine if symptom screening
and feedback to healthcare providers at least three times weekly and locally-adapted symptom
management care pathways, when compared to usual care:
Aim 1. Improves overall self-reported symptom scores (total SSPedi score), fatigue
(PROMIS–Fatigue) and cancer-specific QoL (PedsQL 3.0 Acute Cancer Module) over 8
weeks
Hypothesis: Symptom screening and care pathways will improve symptoms, fatigue and
QoL
Aim 2. Improves symptom documentation, increases provision of interventions for
symptoms, and reduces emergency department visits and unplanned clinic visits and
hospitalizations over 8 weeks
Hypotheses: Symptom screening and care pathways will increase symptom
documentation and provision of interventions for symptoms, and will reduce healthcare
utilization.
Aim 3: As an exploratory aim, we will evaluate key elements of the intervention related to the
external validity and generalizability of the intervention effects using the RE-AIM framework.

Page 3 of 17

