                                             CALGB 70807


    11.4 Interim Analysis

        11.4.1 Primary Endpoint
                At each interim analysis, superiority and futility tests on PFS will be conducted as
                follows.
                Superiority: A superiority test is to test if the experimental arm has a longer PFS
                than the control arm. The first interim analysis for superiority will be conducted when
                80 patients progress or complete the 2 years of follow-up. With 6 months of run-in
                period and a monthly accrual of 15 patients, this will occur at approximately 33
                months. After this time, interim analyses will be conducted every six months
                corresponding with scheduled meetings of the Alliance Data and Safety Monitoring
                Board (DSMB). The final analysis will be conducted 2 years after the completion of
                accrual. With the expected study plan, there should be about 4 or 5 interim analyses
                before the final analysis. The superiority testing during the interim analyses will be
                using one-sided alpha=0.0025. (A one-sided p-value smaller than 0.5 and a test
                statistic larger than 0 imply the superiority of the experimental arm.) The final
                analysis will be using one-sided alpha=0.025. Due to the relatively small number of
                interim analyses and the small alpha spending at each interim analysis, the overall
                type I error rate will not be much larger than the nominal one-sided alpha=0.025
                (107).
                Futility: Futility testing will be conducted at the time of each interim analysis
                scheduled for a superiority test. We will consider stopping the study early due to
                futility if the 1-sided p-value is larger than or equal to 0.5 (or the standardized log-
                rank test statistic is smaller than 0) at any interim analysis.

        11.4.2 Progression Rate
                The power of the log-rank test depends on the PGR in the two arms. An interim
                analysis will be conducted when 400 patients are enrolled on the study to check if the
                specified 20% of 2-year PGR is accurate or not. At the interim analysis, the 2-year
                PGR of the control arm will be estimated. If the estimate is smaller than 20%, we will
                recalculate the sample size using the estimated 2-year PGR for the control arm,
                HR=0.472, two sided alpha=0.05 and a power of 80% and consider increasing the
                sample size by a maximum of 20% of the current sample size. For example, if the
                estimated 2-year PGR for the control arm is 18%, then we need 466 eligible patients
                (about 11% increase from 418 eligible patients). In case the observed progression rate
                is so low that a maximum of 20% increase in sample size does not guarantee a
                reasonable power for the primary endpoint, we will consider suspending the study for
                revision.

        11.4.3 Accrual Monitoring
                The accrual rate will be monitored by DSMB complying with CTEP’s Early Stopping
                Guidelines for Slow Accruing Trials.

    11.5 Statistical analyses for substudy 151105
           For Objective 10.3.2.1, the expression level of MnSOD, XRCC1 and GST will be correlated
           with PSADT within each arm. The expression level of these genes may be highly
           correlated with PSADT in the control arm. However, if dietary modification alters the
           genetic risk, the association may be insignificant or less significant in the experimental
           arm.
           For Objective 10.3.2.2, the expression level of MnSOD, XRCC1 and GST will be correlated
           with time to pathological progression using Cox regression method within each arm. The
           expression level of these genes may be highly correlated with time to pathological
           progression in the control arm. However, if dietary modification alters the genetic risk, the
           association may be insignificant or less significant in the experimental arm.



Version Date 09/26/18                                                                         Update #10
                                                   40
