                      Supplementary Online Content


Zheng SL, Roddick AJ. Association of aspirin use for primary prevention with
cardiovascular events and bleeding events: a systematic review and meta-analysis.
JAMA. doi:10.1001/jama.2018.20578



Supplement 1. Meta-analysis protocol



This supplementary material has been provided by the authors to give readers
additional information about their work.
Meta-analysis protocol

Aim
To evaluate the cardiovascular efficacy and bleeding risk of aspirin in primary
prevention populations using meta-analysis.

Population
Participants without cardiovascular disease

Intervention
Aspirin (acetylsalicylic acid) – any dose permitted

Comparison
Control: Placebo or no aspirin

Outcome
Primary cardiovascular outcome
   – Composite cardiovascular outcome: cardiovascular mortality, non-fatal
      myocardial infarction, non-fatal stroke
Secondary cardiovascular outcome
   - all-cause mortality
   - cardiovascular mortality
   - all myocardial infarction
   - all stroke
   - all ischaemic stroke
Primary bleeding safety outcome
   - major bleeding
Secondary bleeding safety outcome
   - intracranial haemorrhage
   - major gastrointestinal bleeding
Exploratory cancer outcome
   - Incident cancer
   - Cancer mortality
Search strategy

The US Preventive Services Task Force conducted a meta-analysis in September
2015 investigating the cardiovascular efficacy of aspirin in primary prevention
populations. Given that that review addressed a similar question to that set out in this
current meta-analysis, we included studies identified in that review. The US
Preventive Services Task Force undertook their literature search on January 6,
2015. Therefore we undertook an updated literature search from January 1, 2015
through to the search date.

Databases searched:
   • MEDLINE, Embase and CENTRAL: via www.cochranelibrary.com
   • From database inception through August 31, 2018

The initial search will be carried out by SLZ. All references will be collated on
Endnote X7.

After removal of duplicates using the function on Endnote X7, the remaining articles
will be subject to a screening and review steps:
    1. Screening: Title and abstract will be screened with removal of obviously non-
        relevant studies. This step will be done by two authors (SLZ and AJR) without
        overlap i.e. the list of studies will be split evenly between SLZ and AJR and
        screened individually. Non-relevant studies will be decided at the reviewers’
        discretion and should be studies that are obviously not relevant to the study
        question. Specific reason for exclusion will not be recorded, and the reason
        will be given as “Non-relevant”. Reviewers will be overly inclusive at this stage
        to reduce chance of omitting relevant articles.
    2. Review: Remaining articles will be reviewed by SLZ and AJR in parallel and
        independently. The purpose at this stage is to more closely assess studies
        based on inclusion and exclusion criteria. Where necessary, full text will be
        reviewed. Reasons for exclusion will be recorded.

Additional systematic reviews and meta-analyses will be identified on MEDLINE by
searching the drug class names and using pre-set systematic review and meta-
analysis filters. These will then be hand screened for additional trials.

The search terms for each database are provided in the eMethods 1 (Detailed
Statistical Methods).


   -
Study inclusion criteria

   1. Randomised clinical trial
   2. Enrolled participants without known pre-existing cardiovascular disease
   3. Compared aspirin at any dose with placebo or no treatment
   4. Follow-up of 12 months or longer
   5. Enrolling >1000 participants
   6. Provided information on any of the pre-specified cardiovascular and bleeding
      outcomes
   7. English language

Note:
Can use data from secondary analyses of a trial if present data relevant to outcomes
and the original trial meets entry inclusion criteria.
Data extraction

2 study authors (SLZ and AJR) will extract data in parallel and independently onto a
dedicated spreadsheet. The spreadsheet will be prepared on Microsoft Excel and
contain columns for all required extracted data. The spreadsheet will then be
compared between two reviewers to ensure validity and accuracy of data extraction.

The following information will be extracted:
   - Basic trial information:
          o First author, study acronym, year, journal of publication, trial NCT
             number
          o Study inclusion and exclusion criteria, specifically regarding whether
             participants were recruited or excluded based on cardiovascular risk
             factors or cardiovascular disease
          o Follow-up duration
          o Control treatment (placebo or no aspirin)
          o Patient demographics: age, % male/female, compliance, smoking
             status, BMI, % obese (BMI >=30) , % hypertensive, mean systolic
             blood pressure, % dyslipidaemic, mean cholesterol/LDL/HDL, %
             diabetes, % taking statin or proton-pump inhibitor
   - For all cardiovascular (primary and secondary) and bleeding (primary and
       secondary) outcomes:
          o Event count in treatment and control (raw numbers)
          o Relative risk or hazard ratio where reported
          o Upper and lower 95% confidence intervals where reported
          o P value where reported
Statistical analysis

Statistical techniques
Bayesian hierarchical pairwise meta-analysis using GeMTC package on R (version
3.4.1). Fixed or random effects models will be selected based on the deviance
information criterion, using the model with the smallest value. Analysis will be
performed using Markov-chain Monte Carlo methods. Meta-analysis will be
presented as hazard ratio (HR) with 95% credible intervals (CrI). For studies that do
not report hazard ratios for outcomes, event counts, total number and follow-up
duration will be incorporated using the Poisson likelihood and log link approach to
generate HR estimates. Results will be presented graphically in forest plots
comparing aspirin with no aspirin.

To calculate absolute risk differences, frequentist pairwise meta-analysis will be
undertaken to generate risk ratio estimates for all cardiovascular and bleeding
outcomes. Absolute risk differences will be calculated by multiplying the risk ratio
and 95% confidence intervals by the placebo event rate, which is then subtracted
from the placebo risk. Negative values will indicate outcomes favouring aspirin, and
positive values will indicate outcomes favouring no aspirin.

Sensitivity analysis
Analysis will be repeated for all cardiovascular and bleeding outcomes excluding the
following study types:
    - Open label studies
    - Studies randomizing to daily aspirin doses greater than 100mg
    - Studies published before the year 2000

Additional analyses
Results (cardiovascular and bleeding outcomes) analysed using Frequentist meta-
analysis will be provided in the Supplement. For Frequentist analysis, P-value cut-off
of 0.05, two-sided.
Risk of bias assessment

Cochrane risk of bias assessment undertaken by two investigators (SLZ and AJR)
independently (Chapter 8, Cochrane Handbook). Any discrepancy will be resolved
through discussion, and if necessary a third reviewer. Risk of bias for individual trials
will be presented in table format with an overall summary presented as Risk of bias
graph.

For summarising risk of bias for a study across outcomes, Cochrane provides a
framework that leaves the overall assessment at the discretion of the reviewers
based on their own judgement on the relative importance of different domains (Table
8.7a, Cochrane Handbook).

As such, studies will be deemed to have overall high risk of bias if:
   - High risk of bias in 1 or more of the following domains:
          o Allocation concealment
          o Blinding
   - Unclear in 3 or more domains

Changes to Protocol

The following changes have been made to the original protocol and included in the
final publication:
    - An additional sensitivity analysis will be performed excluding trials enrolling
        patients with asymptomatic peripheral vascular disease as identified by ankle-
        brachial pressure index (ABPI), to account for an anticipated elevated
        cardiovascular risk in this population compared to unscreened individuals.
    - An additional sensitivity analysis will be performed excluding the ASCEND
        trial from the primary cardiovascular outcome. The reason for this is because
        ASCEND defined stroke events in its primary outcome as exclusively
        ischaemic aetiology, whereas all other studies included in the primary
        cardiovascular outcome included ischaemic, haemorrhagic and unknown
        aetiologies.
    - The search has been amended on request of peer-review and editorial advice
        to include all studies published from database inception to November 1, 2018.
        The search will be carried out by both authors in duplicate and independently.
