EMPROTECT

20/03/2024

Said LEBBAH/
Agnès DECHARTRES

3.6 Secondary endpoints analyses
•
•

•
•
•

Rate of repeated surgery for a homolateral CSDH recurrence during the 6-month followup period will be compared between the two treatment groups using Chi-square test or
Fisher exact test as appropriate.
Rate of disability and dependency, defined by an mRS score ≥ 4, at 1 month and 6 months
will be compared between the two treatment groups using a GEE logistic model. This
model will include as parameters the randomization arm (intervention versus control), the
time as categorical variable (1 and 6 months) and the time*randomization arm interaction.
The interaction term will determine whether a significant difference is observed between
the two arms of the study at one month and at 6 months. At each time (1 month and 6
month) and in each group, rate of disability and dependency will be estimated with its 95%
confidence interval
Mortality rate at 1 and 6 months will be compared between the two treatment groups
using Chi-square test or Fisher exact test as appropriate
Total cumulative duration of hospital stay, during the 6-month follow-up period, directly
or indirectly related to the CSDH, will be compared between the two treatment groups
using Wilcoxon rank-sum test.
Minor and major complications will be compared between the two treatment groups using
Chi-square test or Fisher exact test as appropriate.

Adverse events observed at 1 month and 6 months will be described overall and according to their
nature by treatment group, in terms of number, and percentage of patients affected. Serious
adverse events will be described separately. Fisher exact test will be used to compare the
proportions of patients who died, with at least one adverse event/serious adverse event, at least
one serious adverse event between the two treatment arms. The number of adverse events and
the number of serious adverse events will be compared between the two groups using Poisson
regression model.

3.7 Statistical significance level planned
All analyses will be carried out at the two-sided alpha risk of 5% (except for the interim analysis
carried out at the nominal threshold of 0.001).

3.8 Statistical criteria for stopping research
Inclusions could be stopped after execution of the interim analysis, in the event of a difference
between the two groups proven at the threshold of 0.001 or due to futility in the event of
conditional power deemed excessively low.
The research will end at the end of the follow-up of the last patient included.

7/9

