EMPROTECT

20/03/2024

Said LEBBAH/
Agnès DECHARTRES

of 5%, 142 patients per group are necessary. The sample size has been calculated considering two
sequential tests planned according to the Lan and Demets method with an O'Brien & Fleming αspending function with an interim analysis after the end of the 6-month follow-up period of the
first 129 patients representing a 37.5% information fraction, at the nominal α threshold of 0.001
and a final analysis at the end of the study at the α threshold of 0.05. Assuming a loss to followup rate of 20%, the number required is 342 patients in total (171 per group).

3.3 Analysis population
The primary analysis will be carried out in the intention-to-treat (ITT) population; each patient
randomized in the study will be analyzed in the arm assigned by randomization regardless of the
treatment actually received.
A sensitivity analysis will be carried out by excluding patients from the experimental group who did
not receive embolization following the results of the CT angiography.

3.4 Descriptive analysis
For each group and at each evaluation time, the categorical variables will be described as number,
percentage and missing data by response modality and the quantitative variables by mean,
standard deviation or median and interquartile range (IQR) according to the normality distribution
of the variable.

3.5 Primary endpoint analysis
The primary endpoint will be analyzed in 2 stages sequential design:
1. An interim analysis planned for 129 randomized patients with known recurrence status
at 6 months.
2. A final analysis at the end of the study
This sequential analysis is based on a 2-step Lan and Demets approach with an O’Brien & Fleming
type alpha risk spending function.
Interim analysis
For the interim analysis, 6-month CSDH recurrences by group will be analyzed using a mixed
logistic model regression adjusted on randomization stratification factors. The randomization
group (intervention versus control), the use of anticoagulant/antiplatelet and the unilateral or
bilateral nature of the CSDH will be included as fixed effects and the center will be introduced as
a random effect. In case of non-convergence of the model, a Mantel-Haensel test (adjusted on the
center and other randomization stratification factors) will be used.
Patients deceased without prior recurrence will be considered as recurrences.
The primary analysis will be carried out according to the results of the adjudication and after
imputation, which we will be completed with the analysis without adjudication of the recurrence
of CSDH (assessment of the primary outcome by on-site investigators), in sensitivity analysis.

5/9

