Cudkowicz (PI) HEALEY ALS Platform Trial: Master Statistical Analysis Plan                                                      Version 3.0, 06 Feb 2023


which the participant's site is active and for which the participant is not known to be ineligible,
e.g., due to prior screen failure. Randomizations are stratified for all combinations of use vs. non-
use of riluzole, edaravone, and sodium phenylbutyrate/taurursodiol at the time of screening for
the Master Protocol. Details of regimen assignment are described in the Platform Trial Regimen
Assignment Plan.

2.6      Treatment Allocation
Prior to the baseline visit, eligible participants for a given regimen will be randomly allocated in
a 3:1 ratio to active or placebo treatment. Active participants may be further divided at random to
more than one dose group, if applicable. Randomizations follow a permuted-block schedule,
stratified for all combinations of use vs. non-use of riluzole, edaravone, and sodium
phenylbutyrate/taurursodiol at the time of screening for the Master Protocol. The randomization
schedule will be prepared by computer program by an unblinded study statistician who will not
contribute to decisions concerning the course, conduct, or analysis of the HEALEY ALS
Platform Trial.

2.7      Treatment Administration
Details of treatment administration are described in the applicable RSA.

2.8      Allocation Concealment
Allocation to regimen is not concealed. Allocation to treatment groups within a regimen is
concealed to participants and investigators. The regimen randomization schedule is known only
to the unblinded study statistician who generated the schedule, any unblinded staff responsible
for managing the interactive response technology (IRT) used for randomization, all staff at the
central pharmacy responsible for distribution of study drug, and the unblinded Independent
Statistical Analysis Committee (ISAC) responsible for interim analyses. An independent Data
and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) will receive unblinded data as described in the DSMB
Charter. Concealment of the true regimen treatment assignment of specific participants is
achieved by using anonymous study drug kit identifiers linked at time of dispensation to
participants. Member of the HEALEY ALS Platform Trial Executive Committee, members of
the Regimen Steering Committee, site investigators and other site staff including research
pharmacists, clinical coordination and data management staff, the medical monitor, and all
participants are blinded to regimen treatment assignments of participants. Additional details
concerning blinding are described in Data Sharing Plan and the Clintrex/CMSU Firewall Plan.

2.9      Master Protocol Schedule of Assessments
                                           Master     Regimen
                                                                                                                                                      Follow-Up
                                           Protocol   Specific    Baseline   Week 2   Week 413   Week 813   Week 12   Week 1613   Week 20   Week 24
                                                                                                                                                      Safety Call
                                          Screening Screening1
                                                    1




               Activity
                                            Clinic     Clinic      Clinic    Phone     Clinic     Clinic     Phone     Clinic      Phone     Clinic     Phone


                                           -42 to -1   Refer to     Day      Day 14   Day 28     Day 56     Day 84    Day 112     Day 140   Day 168    Refer to
                                             Days       RSA          0        ±3       ±7         ±7         ±3         ±7          ±3        ±7        RSA

Written Informed Consent2                     X           X
Inclusion/Exclusion Review                    X          X3
Regimen Specific Screening procedure(s)                   X




                                                                                                                                             Page 10 of 62
