Cudkowicz (PI) HEALEY ALS Platform Trial: Master Statistical Analysis Plan   Version 3.0, 06 Feb 2023


   x   Mean and SD in change from baseline of ALSFRS-R at each 4-week visit for each
       treatment group compared to model fitted expected values from primary analysis
       model.
   x   Kaplan-Meier curve for each treatment group compared to fitted exponential curves
       from primary analysis model.

5.0    A table summarizing the number and percent of completed or expected ALSFRS-R
    assessments that do not contribute to the functional component of the primary analysis
    separated by visit and categorized by a) missing due to death or death equivalent, and
    b) missing for other reasons.2 Key Supportive Joint Rank Analysis of ALSFRS-R and
    Mortality

5.0     As a key supportive analysis, a joint rank test of survival and function will be
    performed. The analysis will rank all participants based first on survival time and
    second, if they survived, the change in ALSFRS-R from 0 to 24-weeks as described in
    Berry et al. 2013 (Berry, 2013). Given that participants may have different lengths of
    follow-up, comparisons will be made between any two participants based on the
    shortest duration of follow-up between the two. For example, if participant 1 has not
    experienced mortality and has ALSFRS-R values through 12 weeks and participant 2
    has not experienced mortality and has ALSFRS-R values through 24 weeks, the
    comparison of the change from baseline at 12 weeks in ALSFRS-R will be made.
    Additionally, if participant 1 has ALSFRS-R values through 36 weeks and then
    experienced mortality at 36 weeks and participant 2 has ALSFRS-R values only through
    24 weeks, a comparison is made based on ALSFRS-R values through 24 weeks. A linear
    regression analysis will be performed on the ranks to adjust for important covariates
    described in Section 2.2.5 using a fixed effect for each covariate as well as a treatment
    effect. This secondary analysis will be performed on the primary analysis population as
    well as the sensitivity analysis populations described in Section 4.3.3 Sensitivity of
    Analysis Population

As sensitivity analyses, the Bayesian primary analysis model will be applied to the
following analysis populations:

   x   Concurrent Shared Control Population: All participants randomized to the active
       treatment arm or placebo arm within the analysis regimen and all participants
       randomized to the placebo arm across other regimens within the master protocol
       who have been randomized within a 6-month window of when the analysis regimen
       has been enrolling.
   x   Common Mode of Administration Population: All participants randomized to the
       active treatment arm or placebo arm within the analysis regimen and all
       participants randomized to the placebo arm across other regimens within the
       master protocol that have the same mode of administration.



                                                                                        Page 42 of 62
