Cudkowicz (PI) HEALEY ALS Platform Trial: Master Statistical Analysis Plan   Version 3.0, 06 Feb 2023



5.0 Clinical Trial Simulations

Clinical trial simulation is used to provided simulated example trials and to quantify
operating characteristics for each regimen. In particular, virtual patient outcomes are
created under different assumptions for key design parameters including placebo rates of
progression for ALSFRS-R, measurement error for ALSFRS-R, mortality rates, treatment
effects on ALSFRS-R, treatment effects on mortality, dropout rates and accrual rates. For
each set of simulation assumptions (i.e., a scenario), many trials are simulated and virtually
executed, including all interim analyses for early success and early futility. Trial operating
characteristics are summarized across all simulated trials for each scenario.


5.1 Virtual Patient ALSFRS-R Simulation

Participant-level ALSFRS-R data at each timepoint is simulated using placebo data from the
Pooled Resource Open-Access ALS Clinical Trials Database (PRO-ACT) with a bootstrap
approach. In particular, a simulation database is created from the PRO-ACT database using
each placebo participant with at least 3 ALSFRS-R measurements over the course of at least
24 weeks. For each of these participants, an intercept, slope and residual standard-error is
calculated from a participant-specific linear regression of the measured ALSFRS-R within
the PRO-ACT database as a function of the month of each measured visit. These linear
regression values as well as baseline covariates are recorded for each participant within
the simulation database.

Within the current simulations, a subset of the PRO-ACT simulation database is sampled
based on those participants that have a time since onset less than 3 years and have a slow
vital capacity or forced vital capacity (SVC / FVC) greater than 50% (N=2175). Within this
subset, the average subject-specific slope (ALSFRS-R decline per month) is -1.03 with a SD
of 0.76. The average residual standard error is 1.77.
To create a dataset of participant-level ALSFRS-R scores at each 4-week visit for each
simulated clinical trial from the PRO-ACT simulation database, the following steps are
taken:

   x   Choose a participant, i, from the PRO-ACT simulation database and record values of
       the participant-specific intercept (ߛ௜ ), slope (ߚ௜ ), residual standard error (ߪ௜ଶ ), and
       baseline covariates.
   x   Simulate participant-specific ALSFRS-R at 0, 4, 8, 12, 16, 20 and 24 weeks (j) from:
                                                               ௝‫כ‬ଵଶ
                                  ܻ௜,௝ ~ܰ(ߛ௜ + (ߚ௜ + ߠ௧(௜) ) ‫ כ‬ହଶ , ߪ௜ଶ );
       assuming ߠ଴ = 0 for placebo and ߠଵ is found such that (ߚመ + ߠଵ )/ߚመ = 1- assumed %
       slowing of treatment; where ߚመ is the average slope across all subjects.

The treatment effect within the simulations is introduced as an additive effect to avoid
introducing differences in the variance of the participant-specific rates of progression
between the treatment and control arms. This is to provide a conservative estimate of

                                                                                        Page 45 of 62
