Cudkowicz (PI) HEALEY ALS Platform Trial: Master Statistical Analysis Plan     Version 3.0, 06 Feb 2023


6.7.5    Blindedness
The proportions of participants and site investigators who report on the Exit Questionnaire a
guess of active vs. placebo treatment assignment, each level of surety of that guess, and each of
five pre-specified reasons for making a treatment assignment will be summarized by treatment
group in the FAS, ERO, and EPP analysis sets. Treatment-dependent differences in the
proportion guessing active treatment assignment will be tested among all respondents and among
those stating they are at least somewhat sure of their guess by Fisher's exact test, the difference
in proportion guessing active treatment assignment will be estimated with confidence bounds,
and the distribution of surety of guesses will be compared by exact Cochran–Armitage trend test.
6.7.6    Protocol Deviations
The number of major and minor protocol deviations will be summarized by type of deviation and
treatment group in all analysis sets. Listings of all protocol deviations will be produced.

7. Validation

7.1     Primary Efficacy Analysis
The primary efficacy analysis will be validated according to a validation plan administered by
Berry Consultants.

7.2     Secondary, Exploratory, and Safety Analyses
Key secondary analyses of the primary efficacy endpoint and primary analyses of secondary
efficacy endpoints and summaries and analyses of serious TEAEs will be replicated from Study
Data Tabulation Model (SDTM) source data by two analysts or statisticians working
independently. Exact matches are required to validate results for the following integer results:
treatment- and visit-specific counts of efficacy endpoints, counts of events, number of
participants affected, and number of participants at risk for safety endpoints. Relative matches
within 0.1% of the common mean are required to validate results for the following floating point
results: estimates, standard errors, confidence bounds, and p-values.
All other analysis code and results will be reviewed by a statistician other than the initial analyst.

8. References
Ayele BT, Lipkovich I, Molenberghs G, Mallinckrodt CH. A multiple-imputation-based
   approach to sensitivity analyses and effectiveness assessments in longitudinal clinical trials. J
   Biopharm Stat. 2014;24(2):211-28.
Balendra R, Jones A, Jivraj N, Knights C, Ellis CM, Burman R, Turner MR, Leigh PN, Shaw
   CE, Al-Chalabi A. Estimating clinical stage of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis from the ALS
   Functional Rating Scale. Amyotroph Lateral Scler Frontotemporal Degener. 2014 Jun;15(3-
   4):279-84.
Berry JD, Miller R, Moore DH, Cudkowicz ME, van den Berg LH, Kerr DA, Dong Y, Ingersoll
   EW, Archibald D. The Combined Assessment of Function and Survival (CAFS): a new
   endpoint for ALS clinical trials. Amyotroph Lateral Scler Frontotemporal Degener. 2013
   Apr;14(3):162-8.

                                                                                          Page 30 of 62
