Cudkowicz (PI) HEALEY ALS Platform Trial: Master Statistical Analysis Plan   Version 3.0, 06 Feb 2023


The estimand estimated by the primary linear contrast of the repeated-measures linear mixed
model is the mean difference in 24-week change from baseline of a given continuous efficacy
endpoint in the active treatment group relative to the placebo group in the FAS population. The
estimand is defined by the following attributes:
x   Treatment: active treatment vs. placebo.
x   Population: FAS population as defined in Section 6.1.
x   Variables: absolute change in endpoint from baseline to the Week 24 Visit.
x   Intercurrent event: treatment discontinuation: handled via treatment policy approach, all data
    will be used including data collected during the placebo-controlled period after treatment
    discontinuation. Missing data post-treatment, including data missing due to death, will not be
    imputed, handled via missing at random assumption.
x   Population-level summary: difference in conditional means of active treatment relative to
    placebo.
A significant positive difference in 24-week change from baseline in the direction of greater
improvement or less worsening among participants randomized to active treatment would
support inference of benefit from active treatment for the efficacy endpoint being tested.
Inference from this analysis is supportive of inference from the Bayesian shared-parameter,
repeated-measures model for the primary endpoint.
6.5.3   Random-slopes Model
Treatment groups of a given regimen will be compared for mean rate of progression of
continuous efficacy and selected safety endpoints (ALSFRS-R total score, ALSFRS-R domain
scores, HHD upper extremity, lower extremity, and global average percentages, SVC percent-
predicted, serum creatinine, serum NfL, and weight) using a random-slopes linear mixed model
in the FAS, ECC, ERO, ECM, and EPP samples. The model will include fixed terms for month
since the Baseline Visit, treatment group, treatment group × month interaction, time since ALS
symptom onset and time since ALS symptom onset × month interaction, delta-FRS and delta-
FRS × month interaction, baseline riluzole use and baseline riluzole use × month interaction,
baseline edaravone use and baseline edaravone use × month interaction, baseline sodium
phenylbutyrate/taurursodiol use and baseline sodium phenylbutyrate/taurursodiol × month
interaction, and baseline log-transformed serum NfL level and baseline log-transformed serum
NfL level × month interaction. Study months will be calculated as the difference in days from the
Baseline Visit to the date of assessment of a given endpoint multiplied by 12 / 365.25. Fixed
terms other than treatment group and month will be centered by subtracting the sample mean of a
given covariate for a given analysis set. The model will include random participant-specific
intercepts and slopes with unstructured covariance. In analysis samples in which placebo
participants are drawn from more than three regimens, the model will include random regimen-
specific intercepts and slopes with unstructured covariance. In analysis samples with three or
fewer regimens, the model will include fixed effects for regimen and regimen x month
interaction.
The following equations describe the model with regimen random effects:




                                                                                        Page 21 of 62
