Cudkowicz (PI) HEALEY ALS Platform Trial: Master Statistical Analysis Plan   Version 3.0, 06 Feb 2023


window, death, withdrawal of consent, early termination, and administrative termination), and
assigned to a regimen. The number of participants ever assigned and last assigned to the focal
regimen, to a non-focal contributing regimen, and to a non-contributing regimen will be
separately indicated. Reasons for Master Protocol screen failure will be summarized.
All participants in the above sample assigned to the focal regimen or a non-focal contributing
regimen will be summarized as two sets (last assigned to the focal regimen vs. last assigned to a
non-focal contributing regimen) for the following events: consented to a regimen, failed
screening for a regimen, other reasons not randomized within a regimen (including timing out of
the screening window, death, withdrawal of consent, early termination, and administrative
termination), and randomized within a regimen. If a given individual is screened multiple times
prior to randomization within a regimen, then the final screening experience of that individual
will be summarized. Reasons for screen failure will be summarized separately for all participants
screened for the focal regimen whether that was their final screening experience or not.
All participants in each analysis set will be summarized as two sets (randomization to active
study drug vs. randomization to placebo) for the following events: initiated regimen-specific
study drug, prematurely terminated study participation due to death, withdrawal of consent, early
termination, loss to follow-up, or administrative termination, completed 24-week follow up, and
completed a safety follow-up visit vs. continued into the ATE. Reasons for withdrawal from the
study will be presented.
6.7.2   Study Drug Compliance and Tolerance
The number of days of exposure to study drug will be summarized by treatment group in the
ERO and SRO analysis sets. The proportion of participants on study drug at each clinic visit will
be summarized by treatment group. Study drug exposure will be calculated In two ways:
x   as the number of days from dose initiation to the final safety assessment during the placebo-
    controlled period, inclusive, and
x   as the number of days from dose initiation to drug withdrawal, inclusive, less any interval
    during which use of study drug was interrupted (individual missed doses will not be
    subtracted unless noted in the dosage management log).
The proportion of participants judged tolerant of study drug, both those who are free of
intolerance due to an AE and those free of intolerance for any reason, will be summarized by
treatment group.
6.7.3   Concomitant Medication Use
Concomitant medications taken during the study period will be coded using the World Health
Organization (WHO) Drug Dictionary Enhanced and Default Anatomical, Therapeutic, and
Chemical (ATC) class. The percentage of participants in all safety samples taking each WHO
drug classified medication and each ATC class of medications will be summarized by treatment
group for medications taken at baseline and those initiated after first dose of study drug.
6.7.4   Medical History
Medical histories will be summarized by MedDRA system organ class, high level term, and
preferred term by treatment group for all medical conditions recorded and for medical conditions
identified as ongoing at baseline in the FAS, ERO, STF, and SRO analysis sets.


                                                                                        Page 29 of 62
