Cudkowicz (PI) HEALEY ALS Platform Trial: Master Statistical Analysis Plan   Version 3.0, 06 Feb 2023


x   Intercurrent event: treatment discontinuation: handled via treatment policy approach, all data
    will be used including data collected during the placebo-controlled period after treatment
    discontinuation. Missing data post-treatment, including data missing due to death, will not be
    imputed, handled via missing at random assumption.
x   Population-level summary: difference in conditional means of active treatment relative to
    placebo.
A significant positive difference in slopes in the direction of greater improvement or less
worsening among participants randomized to active treatment would support inference of benefit
from active treatment for the efficacy endpoint being tested. Inference from this analysis is
supportive of inference from the Bayesian shared-parameter, repeated-measures model for the
primary endpoint.
6.5.4   Survival
The survival endpoints will be analyzed in the FAS, ECC, ERO, ECM, EPP, STF, STN, and
SRO analysis sets. The proportion of participants who reach each survival endpoint and the time
from baseline to that endpoint will be summarized by treatment group in all analysis samples. If
more than 10% of a given sample reaches a survival endpoint, then the estimated time to a 10%
event rate will be estimated by Kaplan-Meier product-limit estimates with complimentary log-
log confidence bounds by treatment group. Time to each survival endpoint will be compared
between treatment groups by log-rank test. If at least one occurrence of a given survival endpoint
is observed in each treatment group, then the treatment-dependent hazard ratio with profile
likelihood confidence bounds will be estimated by unadjusted Cox proportional hazards
regression and by Cox proportional hazards regression adjusting for age at baseline, time since
ALS symptom onset, delta-FRS, baseline log-transformed serum NfL level, use of riluzole at
baseline, use of edaravone at baseline, and use of sodium phenylbutyrate/taurursodiol at baseline
with a random gamma-distributed regimen-specific frailty term. If convergence is not obtained
or the analysis sample includes 3 or fewer regimens, then the frailty term will be dropped.
6.5.5   CAFS
To account for potentially informative loss to follow-up due to death, treatment groups of a given
regimen will be compared by the Combined Assessment of Function and Survival (CAFS, Berry
et al. 2013) in the FAS, ECC, ERO, ECM, and EPP samples. CAFS is a joint-rank test
(Finkelstein and Schoenfeld 1999) of a composite endpoint combining function and survival.
The test consists of calculating a rank-sum score for each individual relative to pair-wise
comparisons with all other participants. Participants are ranked according to time to the survival
endpoint when that is observed for both members of a pair or when one is censored after the
observed event time for the other. Pairs that cannot be ranked by time to the survival endpoint
are ranked by absolute change from baseline in the functional endpoint at the maximum follow-
up time at which both participants have an observation. Pair-wise rankings are scored -1 for the
member of the pair with shorter time to the survival endpoint or greater decline in function and 1
for the other member or 0 for both members when time to the survival endpoint is equal or not
evaluable and change in function is equal, e.g., when one participant is lost to follow-up after
baseline. Pair-wise ranking scores are summed by participant to calculate a rank-sum. Inference
of treatment-dependent difference in the hierarchical composite of death and disease progression
is based on a Wilcoxon rank-sum test of the participant-specific rank-sum scores or on a
regression of the rank-sum scores adjusting for covariates.

                                                                                        Page 23 of 62
