Cudkowicz (PI) HEALEY ALS Platform Trial: Master Statistical Analysis Plan    Version 3.0, 06 Feb 2023



Version         Date            Description of Changes
                                and to specify that levels of serum and CSF NfL will be log-
                                transformed in all analyses.
                                Revision of Section 5.5 Patient-reported Outcomes to align with
                                Master Protocol version 5.0.
                                Revision of Section 5.6 Survival to add an additional survival
                                endpoint of death alone, to specify that the date of PAV initiation,
                                where applicable, will be imputed as the fifteenth day of a month if
                                not specified more precisely, and to specify that time at risk begins at
                                each participant's Baseline Visit and ends at the Week 24 Visit if
                                completed or at the earlier of the end of the Week 24 Visit window or
                                date last known alive if a Week 24 visit is not completed.
                                Addition of Section 5.7 King's ALS Clinical Staging System to
                                specify determination of King's stage.
                                Addition of Section 5.8 Clinical Safety Laboratory Tests to specify
                                clinical safety laboratory tests and derivation of measures of drug-
                                induced liver injury.
                                Revision of Section 6.1 Analysis Sets to define the Full Analysis Set,
                                to add the Efficacy Common Mode of Administration (ECM) analysis
                                set, and to specify the time point at which data is excluded from the
                                Efficacy Per-protocol analysis set.
                                Revision of Section 6.2 Baseline Characteristics to include additional
                                baseline characteristics.
                                Revision of Section 6.3 Primary Efficacy Analysis and Supportive
                                Analyses to specify the estimand.
                                Revision of Section 6.4 Interim Analysis to specify that the default
                                design for a regimen will include stopping early only for futility.
                                Revision of Section 6.5 Hierarchical Testing to fully specify the
                                secondary endpoints.
                                Revision of Section 6.5.2 Repeated-measures Model to add a fixed
                                term for treatment group (removing the shared-baseline assumption at
                                the recommendation of the FDA), to add fixed terms for baseline use
                                of sodium phenylbutyrate/taurursodiol, baseline serum NfL level, and
                                their interactions with visit, and to specify the estimand.
                                Revision of Section 6.5.3 Random-slopes Model to add a fixed term
                                for treatment group (removing the shared-baseline assumption at the
                                recommendation of the FDA), to add fixed terms for baseline serum
                                NfL level, baseline use of sodium phenylbutyrate/taurursodiol, and
                                their interactions with visit, and to specify the estimand.



                                                                                          Page 3 of 62
