Cudkowicz (PI) HEALEY ALS Platform Trial: Master Statistical Analysis Plan   Version 3.0, 06 Feb 2023


Section 2.1:   Updated the analysis sample definition to exclude participants determined to
               not meet ALS diagnostic criteria. Clarified the definition of the survival
               endpoint. Defined “ongoing participants” and specified that data from
               ongoing participants would not be used in the primary analysis.
Section 2.2: Clarified reference to the survival endpoint.
Section 2.2.5: Added baseline log-transformed serum NfL level and baseline sodium
               phenylbutyrate/taurursodiol use as additional covariates. Specified that all
               covariates would be standardized by subtracting their means. Specified that
               all missing baseline covariates would be imputed by their mean. Specified
               that means would be calculated after transformation for any transformed
               baseline covariates.
Section 3.1: Removed reference to the first three regimens specifically.
Section 4.1: Added a table summarizing the number and percent of completed or
               expected ALSFRS-R assessments that do not contribute to the functional
               component of the primary analysis.
Section 4.5: Added details regarding the piecewise-linear sensitivity analysis.
Section 4.6: Added a sensitivity analysis using death alone as the survival endpoint.


5.0 Introduction

The ALS Master Protocol is a perpetual, multicenter, multi-regimen, randomized, placebo-
controlled, adaptive platform trial. The primary objective of the trial is to evaluate the
efficacy of multiple investigational products, as compared to placebo, on ALS disease
progression. The master protocol will include multiple regimens where a regimen is
defined as both an active treatment and the corresponding randomized placebo.
Participants in the master protocol will be randomized in two stages; first to one of the
actively enrolling regimens; and then 3:1 to active treatment or placebo within the
regimen.

This document describes the master protocol recommended primary endpoint, primary
analysis, and interim analyses. This will be the default statistical design and primary
analysis for all regimens investigated in this master protocol. The recommended design is
intended to support inference of substantial evidence of effectiveness when the data so
warrant.

Each regimen will have a regimen-specific appendix (RSA). Deviations from the master
protocol recommended statistical design are permitted. The exact statistical design along
with complete operating characteristics for each regimen will be specified in the RSA.

The master protocol recommended primary efficacy endpoint is change from baseline
through week 24 in disease severity as measured by the ALS Functional Rating Scale-
Revised (ALSFRS-R) total score and survival. The primary analysis is a Bayesian shared
parameter analysis of ALSFRS-R and survival. The primary analysis compares each
regimen-specific active treatment to a shared control group.


                                                                                        Page 33 of 62
