Cudkowicz (PI) HEALEY ALS Platform Trial: Master Statistical Analysis Plan    Version 3.0, 06 Feb 2023


x     Safety Narrow (STN) Set: The subset of participants in the STF analysis set who were
      exposed to interventions with the same mode of administration.
x     Safety Regimen-only (SRO) Set: The subset of participants in the STF analysis set who were
      randomized within a given regimen.
The meaning of regimen data lock and the criteria for inclusion of data for placebo participants
assigned to other regimens at the time of regimen data lock will be defined in the HEALEY ALS
Platform Trial Data Management Plan and the HEALEY ALS Platform Trial Data Sharing Plan.

6.2     Baseline Characterization
Each analysis sample will be summarized overall and by treatment group for the following
characteristics: randomization site; age, sex, race, ethnicity, El Escorial diagnosis, months since
ALS symptom onset, delay between symptom onset and ALS diagnosis, site of ALS symptom
onset, use at baseline of riluzole, edaravone, or sodium phenylbutyrate/taurursodiol and
combinations of use and non-use of these medications, ALSFRS-R total score, delta-FRS, SVC,
King's stage, weight, body mass index (BMI), serum creatinine concentration, and serum NfL
concentration.

6.3     Primary Efficacy Analysis and Supportive Analyses
Unless otherwise specified in the RSA, the primary analysis for each regimen is a Bayesian
shared-parameter model of function and survival. Details of the model, including documentation
of operating characteristics under a range of scenarios, are provided in the MPRDR (Appendix 1
to this M-SAP). Any regimen-specific deviations are described in the applicable RSA and R-
SAP.
The estimand of the primary analysis is the relative rate of disease progression (the "disease rate
ratio" or DRR) of active treatment relative to placebo in the FAS population under an assumption
that active treatment slows mean time to death or death equivalent by the same proportion as
treatment slows the mean rate of functional progression as measured by change in ALSFRS-R
total score over time. The estimand is defined by the following attributes:
x     Treatment: active treatment vs. placebo.
x     Population: FAS population as defined in Section 6.1.
x     Variables: time to death or death equivalent and rate of change in ALSFRS-R total score
      from baseline to the Week 24 Visit.
x     Intercurrent event 1: treatment discontinuation due to death or death equivalent: no ALSFRS-
      R data from participants who reach the death or death equivalent endpoint are included in the
      analysis, handled via mortality component in model, composite variable strategy approach.
x     Intercurrent event 2: treatment discontinuation not due to death or death equivalent: handled
      via treatment policy approach, all data will be used including data collected during the
      placebo-controlled period after treatment discontinuation regardless of concomitant
      medication, for those participants who have not been censored due to mortality. Missing data
      post-treatment will not be imputed, handled via missing at random assumption.
x     Population-level summary: mean ratio of hazard or progression rate of active treatment
      relative to placebo.

                                                                                         Page 18 of 62
