Cudkowicz (PI) HEALEY ALS Platform Trial: Master Statistical Analysis Plan       Version 3.0, 06 Feb 2023


(bulbar, upper limb, and lower limb) with neuromuscular dysfunction and levels 4a and 4b
indicating nutritional or respiratory failure secondary to ALS, respectively.
Participants will be classified to King's stage 1, 2, 3, 4a, or 4b based on scores from ALSFRS-R
assessments according to a published derivation (Balendra et al. 2014). Bulbar involvement is
defined as a score less than 4 on any of the ALSFRS-R questions in the bulbar domain (questions
1, 2, and 3). Upper limb involvement is defined as a score less than 4 on either of the ALSFRS-R
questions related to hand function (questions 4 and 5A). Lower limb involvement is defined as a
score less than 4 on the ALSFRS-R question about walking (question 8). Nutritional failure is
defined as responding that the participant uses gastrostomy for greater than 50% of their
nutrition. Respiratory failure is defined as a score of 0 on the ALSFRS-R question addressing
dyspnea (question 10 or R-1) or a score less than 4 on the ALSFRS-R question about use of
mechanical ventilation (question 12 or R-3). Participants without evidence by ALSFRS-R scores
of involvement of any of the three central nervous system regions will be scored as King's stage
1 due to their confirmed diagnosis with ALS. Participant may meet criteria for both King's stage
4a and 4b.

5.8     Clinical Safety Laboratory Tests
Clinical safety labs include hematology, blood chemistry panel, liver function tests, thyroid
function, urinalysis, and pregnancy testing in women of childbearing potential as specified in
Section 9.1.2 Clinical Safety Laboratory Tests of the Master Protocol:
x     Hematology with differential panel: complete blood count with differential (hematocrit,
      hemoglobin, platelet count, RBC indices, Total RBC, Total WBC, and WBC & differential)
x     Blood chemistry panel/Liver function tests (LFTs): alanine aminotransferase (ALT (SGPT)),
      aspartate aminotransferase (AST (SGOT)), albumin, alkaline phosphatase, bicarbonate, blood
      urea nitrogen, calcium, chloride, creatinine (estimated Glomerular Filtration Rate [eGFR]
      will be calculated using the MDRD equation and creatinine clearance will be calculated
      using the Cockcroft-Gault equation), glucose, magnesium, phosphate, potassium, sodium,
      thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH), total bilirubin and total protein
x     Urinalysis: albumin, bilirubin, blood, clarity, color, glucose, ketones, nitrate, pH, protein,
      specific gravity, urobilinogen and WBC screen
x     Serum human chorionic gonadotrophin (hCG) for WOCBP (collected only at Master
      Protocol Screening Visit, and as necessary throughout course of study)
x     Coagulation parameters: Prothrombin time, International normalized ratio, Activated partial
      thromboplastin time


Clinical safety labs will also include derived measures of potential drug-induced liver injury
(DILI), including those that potentially meet the Hy’s law criteria, as distinct safety lab
outcomes.
Three potential DILI criteria will be defined:
x     ALT or AST >3x ULN with TBL >1.5x ULN


                                                                                            Page 16 of 62
