Cudkowicz (PI) HEALEY ALS Platform Trial: Master Statistical Analysis Plan     Version 3.0, 06 Feb 2023


x   Baseline symptom severity (all ALSFRS-R questions scored 2 or greater vs. any question
    scored 0 or 1),
x   Early disease state (all ALSFRS-R questions scored 2 or greater, SVC 80%-predicted or
    greater, and time since symptom onset less than 24 months vs. not meeting all three criteria),
x   Site of symptom onset (bulbar vs. non-bulbar),
x   Baseline plasma NfL concentration (high vs. low by median split), and
x   Site (individual sites with at least 5 participants per treatment group and all participants from
    sites with fewer than 5 participants per treatment group pooled).
For each subgroup, unknown, not reported, and missing will be considered as one group. All
individuals not included in a specified subgroup will be combined into a mixed, "other" group.
The "other" group will be included in analyses if its prevalence is greater than 5%; otherwise, the
"other" group will be excluded.
For each subgroup, the following estimates will be obtained:
x   the treatment-group specific estimate within each subgroup level,
x   the treatment difference within each subgroup level,
x   the difference of differences between each pair of subgroup levels, and
x   for subgroups with more than two levels, the F-test for the subgroup × treatment × time term
    will be estimated.
6.5.10 Comparison of Controls across Regimens
The magnitude of differences in regimen-specific rates of progression for primary and secondary
efficacy endpoints will be compared by random-slopes models for functional endpoints and by
Kaplan-Meier product-limit estimates, log-rank test, and Cox proportional hazards regression for
survival using the placebo participants in the FAS analysis set . The random-slopes models will
include fixed effects of regimen and regimen x time interaction, adjusting for time since onset,
delta-FRS, baseline log-transformed serum NfL level, baseline riluzole use, baseline edaravone
use, and baseline sodium phenylbutyrate/taurursodiol and their interactions with time. Fixed
terms other than regimen and month will be centered by subtracting the sample mean of a given
covariate. The models will include participant-specific intercepts and slopes with unstructured
covariance. Adjusted regimen-specific slope estimates, difference of the focal regimen control
group vs. each other regimen and vs. the average of all other regimens, and an overall F-test of
regimen-specific differences in rates of disease progression will be estimated. Regimen-specific
slopes will be plotted vs. calendar year of median randomization. Cox models will include main
effects for regimen, time since onset, delta-FRS, baseline log-transformed serum NfL level,
baseline riluzole use, baseline edaravone use and baseline sodium phenylbutyrate/taurursodiol
use. Adjusted regimen-specific hazard ratios of the focal regimen control group vs. each other
regimen and vs. the average of all other regimens, and an overall F-test of regimen-specific
differences in hazard of mortality will be estimated.




                                                                                          Page 26 of 62
