Cudkowicz (PI) HEALEY ALS Platform Trial: Master Statistical Analysis Plan      Version 3.0, 06 Feb 2023


6.6     Safety Analyses
6.6.1    Treatment-emergent Adverse Events
TEAEs are defined as those adverse events with onset dates in the interval from treatment
initiation to either the Final Safety Visit if completed, the date of death if the participant dies, the
date of last study contact if the participant early terminates or is lost to follow-up, or the date of
first dose of study drug during participation in the ATE, if so exposed. Adverse events with onset
on the day of placebo-controlled treatment initiation and adverse events with incompletely
specified onset date where the ambiguous date spans the day of double-blind treatment initiation
will be assumed to be treatment emergent except for those known to precede first exposure to
study drug.
The incidence of TEAEs will be summarized by the number of events of a given classification
experienced by participants in each treatment group and by the number and proportion of
participants experiencing such an event in each treatment group in all safety samples. The
number of events and proportion of participants experiencing TEAEs will be summarized
without regard to MedDRA term for any TEAE, any serious TEAE, any severe TEAE, any fatal
TEAE, any related TEAE, and any TEAE leading to discontinuation of study drug. TEAEs will
be summarized by MedDRA system organ class, high level term, and preferred term for all
TEAEs. TEAEs, serious TEAEs, and non-serious TEAEs observed in at least 5% of participants
in a given treatment group will be summarized by MedDRA system organ class and preferred
term and by MedDRA preferred term alone. TEAEs will be summarized by MedDRA system
organ class and preferred term for serious TEAEs, severe TEAEs, fatal TEAEs, related TEAEs,
and TEAEs leading to discontinuation of study drug. TEAEs and serious TEAEs will be
stratified by the following subgroups: age, sex, race, ethnicity, baseline riluzole use, baseline
edaravone use, baseline sodium phenylbutyrate/taurursodiol use, weight, BMI, and CKD stage.
Subgroup classifications will be the same as described in Section 6.5.9 Subgroup Analyses
except that the "other" group will be retained regardless of prevalence.
For overall summaries of TEAE not classified by MedDRA term and for summaries of TEAEs,
serious TEAEs, and non-serious TEAEs observed in at least 5% of participants in a given
treatment group, treatment-specific TEAE incidence rates in units of number per 100 participant
years and treatment-dependent differences will be estimated by Poisson regression with log link
and offsets equal to the log of weeks from initiation to discontinuation of placebo-controlled
treatment. Comparison-wise 95% confidence intervals will be calculated with variance estimates
obtained by the delta method.
The incidence of TEAEs will be summarized without regard to MedDRA term in all safety
samples for the following characteristics: (a) seriousness, (b) severity, (c) relationship to study
drug, (d) action taken with study drug, (e) use of a concomitant medication, and (f) outcome. For
each level of a given TEAE characteristic, summaries will include the number of events of a
given classification and the number and proportion of participants for which that level of a
characteristic was the worst they experienced. Any unknown characteristic of a TEAE will not
be classified as worst. The level for participants who experienced no TEAE will be coded as the
zero-level of each characteristic.




                                                                                           Page 27 of 62
