Cudkowicz (PI) HEALEY ALS Platform Trial: Master Statistical Analysis Plan   Version 3.0, 06 Feb 2023


All combinations of the following elements will be tested:
1. Survival endpoint: (a) death or death-equivalent, and (b) death alone.
2. Function endpoint: (a) ALSFRS-R total score, (b) HHD upper extremity percentage, (c) SVC
percent-predicted, and (d) HHD lower extremity percentage.
3. Analysis: (a) Wilcoxon rank-sum test by t-distribution approximation, and (b) adjusted mixed
model analysis controlling for time since ALS symptom onset, delta-FRS, baseline log-
transformed serum NfL level, use of riluzole at baseline, use of edaravone at baseline, and use of
sodium phenylbutyrate/taurursodiol at baseline and including a random effect of regimen in all
analyses that include at least three regimens or a fixed effect of regimen otherwise.
6.5.6   HHD0 and HHD0[2]
The time to first and second loss of measurable strength among muscles assessed by HHD and
grip strength will be compared between treatments by interval-censored nonparametric
maximum likelihood methods and interval-censored Cox proportional hazards regression in the
FAS, ECC, ERO, ECM, and EPP samples. The model will adjust for time since ALS symptom
onset, delta-FRS, baseline log-transformed serum NfL level, use of riluzole at baseline, use of
edaravone at baseline, and use of sodium phenylbutyrate/taurursodiol at baseline.
The first HHD0 and HHD0[2] analyses will consider all 11 muscles and grip strength with non-
zero strength at baseline (up to 24 bilateral strength assessments in total). A second pair of
HHD0 and HHD0[2] analyses will restrict to the four bilateral muscle groups or grip strength
that reach zero most frequently in a specific analysis sample (up to 8 bilateral strength
assessments in total).
6.5.7   Placebo Multiple Imputation
To account for possible treatment-dependent loss to follow-up whether due to death, intolerance,
or other causes, the effect of treatment on ALSFSR-R total score, HHD upper extremity
percentage, SVC percent-predicted, and HHD lower extremity percentage will be estimated in
the repeated-measures and random-slopes models using placebo multiple imputation for missing
data (Ayele et al. 2014) in the FAS and ERO samples. Fifty imputed datasets will be generated
for a given endpoint. Missing values for each visit will be imputed from those predicted by linear
regression from earlier visits using data only from placebo participants, adjusting for time since
symptom onset, delta-FRS, baseline log-transformed serum NfL level, baseline riluzole use,
baseline edaravone use, and baseline sodium phenylbutyrate/taurursodiol use.
The following SAS code specifies the imputation for an endpoint measured every 8 weeks:
proc mi data=work.outcomes seed=xxx nimpute=50 minmaxiter=1000
        minimum=. . . . . . . x x x x maximum=. . . . . . . y y y y ;
  class trtrnd rlz edv amx;
  fcs reg(Wk08 = sx2bl dFRS nfl rlz edv amx Wk00);
  fcs reg(Wk16 = sx2bl dFRS nfl rlz edv amx Wk00 Wk08);
  fcs reg(Wk24 = sx2bl dFRS nfl rlz edv amx Wk00 Wk08 Wk16);
  mnar model( Wk08 Wk16 Wk24 / modelobs=(trtrnd="0"));
  var sx2bl dFRS nfl rlz edv amx Wk00 Wk08 Wk16 Wk24;
run;



                                                                                        Page 24 of 62
