Cudkowicz (PI) HEALEY ALS Platform Trial: Master Statistical Analysis Plan   Version 3.0, 06 Feb 2023


random slope effects, ‫ܫ‬, ݅ = 1, … , ܰ, represent the participant-specific rate of decline per
month in ALSFRS-R expected under placebo.

The overall mean estimate per treatment arm and regimen is assumed to have a non-
informative prior normal distribution with a mean of 38 (mean value observed in historical
trials within the PRO-ACT database) and SD of 10:

                             ߙோ,் ~ܰ(38, 10ଶ ); ܶ = 0,1; ܴ = 1, … ܰோ

Participant-level random intercept effects are modelled using a hierarchical normal
distribution with a population mean of 0 and population standard deviation, ߪఊ , with a
uniform hyper-prior:

                                     ߛ௜ ~ܰ൫0, ߪఊଶ ൯; ݅ = 1, … ܰ;
                                         ߪఊ ~ܷ݂݊݅(0,10).

The uniform hyper-prior on the standard deviation is non-informative with a range from 0
to 10 (twice observed SD of the participant-level intercepts in historical trials within the
PRO-ACT database).

Participant-level random slope effects are modelled using a hierarchical normal
distribution with overall population mean, ߤఉ , with a normal hyper-prior; and an arm-
specific population standard deviation, ߪఉ,் ; ܶ = 0,1, with a uniform hyper-prior:

                                                ଶ
                                   ߚ௜ ~ܰ൫ߤఉ , ߪఉ,௧(௜) ൯; ݅ = 1, … ܰ;
                                            ߤఉ ~ܰ(1,1ଶ );
                                      ߪఉ,் ~ܷ݂݊݅(0,2); ܶ = 0,1.

The mean and variance of the participant-level random effects are estimated from the data.
This is done by placing hyperprior distributions on the relevant parameters in the random
effects distribution and using the observed data to estimate the hyper-parameters. Non-
informative distributions are used for these hyper-priors to ensure that the data determine
the corresponding hyper-prior estimates and the estimated random effect distributions. In
particular, the normal hyper-prior on the mean of the participant-level random slope
effects is non-informative with a mean of 1 (mean value observed in historical trials within
the PRO-ACT database) with a standard deviation of 1. The uniform hyper-prior on the
standard deviation is non-informative with a range from 0 to 2 (over twice observed SD of
the participant-level slopes in historical trials within the PRO-ACT database).


2.2.3 Regimen-Specific Random Slope Effects ALSFRS-R




                                                                                        Page 38 of 62
