Cudkowicz (PI) HEALEY ALS Platform Trial: Master Statistical Analysis Plan                           Version 3.0, 06 Feb 2023


14 Drug accountability will not be done at phone visits. A drug compliance check in will be conducted during phone visits to ensure

participant is taking drug per dose regimen and to note any report of missed doses.


3. General Considerations for Data Analysis

3.1     Statistical Software
Statistical analyses will be performed using SAS (SAS Institute, NC, USA), R (R Foundation for
Statistical Computing, Vienna, Austria), or JAGS (Plummer, SourceForge).

3.2     Summary Statistics
Data will be summarized with respect to disposition, demographics, pre-treatment
characteristics, efficacy endpoints, safety endpoints, and tolerability. Summary statistics for
continuous variables will include the number of observations, the mean, median, standard
deviation, inter-quartile range, and range. Summaries of categorical data will include counts,
denominators, and percentages.

3.3     Precision
Results will generally be reported to 3 significant figures. Percentages will generally be reported
to 0.1 percentage points. P-values will generally be reported to two digits when greater than or
equal to 0.095, to three digits when greater than or equal to 0.00095 and less than 0.095, and as
<0.001 for all smaller values.

3.4     Transformations
Data that are strictly positive, continuous, and strongly right skewed will typically be log-
transformed prior to any inferential testing. Skewness greater than 3 will be used as a guide in
determining which variables to transform. Which variables warrant transformation and how they
will be transformed will be determined prior to regimen data lock. Original, untransformed
values will be used for all summaries. Any data transformations used in the primary and interim
analyses are described in the MPRDR (Appendix 1 to this M-SAP).

3.5     Multiplicity Adjustments
A single primary analysis is planned. The default criterion for significance at the final analysis is
adjusted to ensure an overall one-sided type 1 error rate less than 0.025 in the absence of early
stopping for futility. Secondary efficacy endpoints will be tested in a pre-specified order using a
closed testing procedure to maintain an overall two-tailed family-wise error rate less than 0.05
under the condition that the primary and all secondary analyses are null. Nominal comparison-
wise p-values will also be reported for all analyses unless otherwise specified.

3.6     Missing Data
If baseline values of a given measure are missing, the last observed pre-treatment value will be
used. Missing baseline covariates will be imputed using the mean of the respective covariate. For
any baseline covariate that is transformed for analysis, means will be imputed after
transformation. Off-schedule results, e.g., those collected as part of an Early Termination Visit,
will be used in place of the closest missing scheduled visit (while preserving visit sequence) for
analyses that depend on visit-specific data. Other results will not be carried forward.

                                                                                                                   Page 12 of 62
