Cudkowicz (PI) HEALEY ALS Platform Trial: Master Statistical Analysis Plan         Version 3.0, 06 Feb 2023


                slowing in the rate of progression for ALSFRS-R in treated participants
                relative to control for survivors.
            x Mortality: Exponential proportional hazards model of time to the composite
                survival endpoint of death or death-equivalent through 24 weeks that
                measures the mortality hazard ratio in treated participants relative to
                control.
            x Shared Treatment Effect: A shared treatment effect parameter (slowing in
                time of the progression of the disease) is common between the function and
                mortality components and provides an overall estimate of the treatment
                effect that is averaged across the two endpoints. This shared parameter
                corresponds to a slowing in the rate of ALSFRS-R progression as well as a
                slowing in the time to mortality.
The ALSFRS-R repeated measures component of survivors is based on a linear rate of
progression in ALSFRS-R for placebo participants and a proportional slowing in the rate of
progression for treated participants at each time point. The model incorporates
participant-level random effects in the baseline value of the ALSFRS-R (intercept) and in
the rate of progression (slope); covariate effects to account for covariate-explainable
differences in rates of progression based on participant-specific baseline covariates;
regimen-specific differences in baseline values, rates of progression and measurement
error, and a time-trend effect to accommodate non-concurrently randomized controls.
Assuming there are ܰ௙௨௡௖ total participants who have survived, let the ALSFRS-R at
timepoint j for participant I be labelled ܻ௜௝ , for j = the number of weeks at the visit with
expected values around 0, 4, 8, 12, 16, 20, and 24 weeks and ݅ = 1, … , ܰ௙௨௡௖ . We note that
the value for j will be the actual week that the visit took place rounded to the nearest day.
The Bayesian repeated measures model for ALSFRS-R is

                                                                                  ݆ ‫ כ‬12
          ܻ௜௝ = (ߙ௥(௜),௧(௜) + ߛ௜ ) െ Ⱦ୧ ‫ כ‬exp൫ߠ௧(௜) + ߜܺ௜ + ߩௗ(௜) + ߟ௥(௜) ൯ ‫ כ‬൬          ൰ + ߳௜௝ ;
                                                                                    52
                                                  ଶ
                                      ߳௜௝ ~ ܰ൫0, ߪ௥(௜),௧(௜) ൯.
The mortality component is an exponential proportional hazards model that assumes a
constant baseline hazard rate for all control participants. Given the low expected rate of
mortality within this study (5%) and to avoid over-parameterization, we do not include
covariate, regimen-specific, or time-trend effects in the mortality component. Assuming
there are ܰ௠௢௥௧ total participants, the hazard rate of mortality per month for participants
݅ = 1, … , ܰ௠௢௥௧ is denoted ߣ௜ and is

                                ߣ௜ = ߣ଴ exp൫ߠ௧(௜) ൯; ݅ = 1, … , ܰ௠௢௥௧ .

The shared parameter model makes use of the following additional notation:
   x Treatment arm: ‫ )݅(ݐ‬denotes the treatment arm, T, to which participant i is
      randomized where ܶ = 0,1 corresponds to placebo and active arm, respectively.
   x Regimen: ‫ )݅(ݎ‬denotes the regimen, R, to which participant i is randomized where
      ܴ = 1, … ܰ௥ corresponds to the analysis regimen (R=1) and all other ܰ௥ , enrolling
      regimens respectively.


                                                                                               Page 36 of 62
