Cudkowicz (PI) HEALEY ALS Platform Trial: Master Statistical Analysis Plan     Version 3.0, 06 Feb 2023


Exploratory Efficacy Objectives:
      x    To evaluate the effect of multiple investigational products on selected biomarkers and
           endpoints.
Each regimen will test the efficacy of a distinct treatment.

2.3       Study Population
Individuals eligible for trial participation are men or women at least 18 years old who meet the
El Escorial criteria of possible, laboratory-supported probable, probable, or definite for a
diagnosis of sporadic or familial ALS, report onset of weakness within 36 months of screening,
possess a slow vital capacity (SVC) at least 50% of that expected based on age, sex, and height,
are treatment naïve or on a stable dose of riluzole, edaravone, or both, are naïve to or have
started treatment with sodium phenylbutyrate/taurursodiol at least 30 days prior to Master
Protocol Screening, lack unstable clinical or psychiatric conditions, and were not recently
exposed to other investigational treatments or prior gene therapy. Detailed inclusion and
exclusion criteria are specified in the Master Protocol and applicable RSA.
Participants will be recruited from approximately 60 centers located throughout the US that are
part of the Northeast ALS (NEALS) Consortium.

2.4       Participant Flow
Participants that consent to the Master Protocol will be screened for Master Protocol-level
inclusion and exclusion criteria. Those determined eligible will be randomly assigned to an
applicable regimen. Participants that consent to their assigned regimen will be screened for any
regimen-specific inclusion and exclusion criteria. Those determined eligible will be randomized
to either active or placebo treatment for their assigned regimen.
This perpetual platform trial will continue enrolling research participants for as long as there are
regimens that are enrolling. Enrollment into a specific regimen will continue until the target
number of randomized participants in a regimen has been reached unless stopped earlier due to a
determination of regimen success or futility.
Each regimen will compare double-blind active and placebo treatment groups for a maximum of
up to 28 weeks or as otherwise specified in the RSA. Participants will complete a baseline visit
prior to initiating study drug. After the baseline visit, participants will be seen in clinic at 4, 8,
16, and 24 weeks and will complete telephone visits at 2, 12, and 20 weeks and 28 days after last
dose of study drug or as otherwise specified in the RSA.
An active treatment extension (ATE) will be available to participants who complete the double-
blind phase as described in their respective RSAs. Participants may also opt to re-screen for the
Master Platform and enroll in a second regimen, if eligible.
Detailed descriptions of study procedures and timing are specified in the Master Protocol and
applicable RSA.

2.5       Regimen Allocation
Participants determined eligible for Master Protocol-level inclusion and exclusion criteria will be
randomized with equal probability to all applicable regimens. Applicable regimens are those for


                                                                                           Page 9 of 62
