Cudkowicz (PI) HEALEY ALS Platform Trial: Master Statistical Analysis Plan                      Version 3.0, 06 Feb 2023




 Figure 6.3.1: Example Trial 3. Null Treatment Effect (DRR = 1.0). Differences across regimens in shared control. Top row
shows results from the primary analysis using all shared controls. Bottom row shows results from sensitivity analyses using
                                          only matched regimen-specific controls.

Figure 6.3.2 shows results from a null simulated trial (no treatment effect) where there are
more substantial differences across regimens in the shared control than in the previous
example. The raw mean change from baseline at 24 weeks in the matched regimen-specific
controls is approximately -4.0 and the mean change from baseline at 24 weeks in the other
shared controls is approximately -7.0 for both. Because the Bayesian primary analysis
allows for dynamic sharing of controls (more sharing if they look similar vs. less sharing if
they look different) these substantial differences across regimens allows the model to learn
the controls are likely very different across regimens and leads to a fitted ALSFRS-R slope
for the matched regimen-specific control that is less influenced and pulled down by the
controls of the other two regimens than in the previous example (red line falls slightly
below red circles). This causes a slight positive treatment effect bias in the DRR (estimated
to be 0.90) under the primary analysis method. The posterior probability that the DRR is
less than 1 is 0.714 and the Bayesian shared parameter analysis leads to a null result.
However, because the CAFS analysis uses all shared controls and the amount of sharing is
not dynamic, the results of this analysis are more sensitive to the increased rate of
progression in the other two control groups and the corresponding one-sided p-value from
the CAFS is 0.0026. Leading to a Type I error in the CAFS analysis but not the Bayesian

                                                                                                            Page 58 of 62
