Cudkowicz (PI) HEALEY ALS Platform Trial: Master Statistical Analysis Plan   Version 3.0, 06 Feb 2023


2.2.6 Residual Errors ALSFRS-R

The residual errors for the individual observations, ߳௜௝ , ݅ = 1, … , ܰ and ݆ = 0, … ,24 are
modelled as independent normal distributions with a mean of 0 and with an treatment arm
and regimen-specific standard deviation of ߪோ,் ; ܶ = 0,1; ܴ = 1, … , ܰோ .

The prior distribution for the standard deviation of the residual error term in each arm are
independent and identically distributed as:

                             ߪோ,் ~ܷ݂݊݅(0,4); ܶ = 0,1; ܴ = 1, … , ܰ௥ .

The uniform prior distribution is non-informative, ranging from 0 to 4 (over twice that
observed in historical trials within the PRO-ACT database).

2.2.7 Baseline Mortality Hazard Rate


The baseline mortality hazard rate per month common across all placebo participants is ߣ଴ .
The prior distribution for the placebo mortality hazard rate is distributed as Gamma (shape
and rate parametrization):

                                        ߣ଴ ~‫(ܽ݉݉ܽܩ‬.01,1);

with a mean of 0.01 and a standard deviation of 0.1. This prior distribution is centered on
the value observed within the PRO-ACT database.

2.3 Posterior Summaries

The Bayesian posterior distribution of all model parameters is calculated using Markov
chain Monte Carlo (MCMC). We will draw at least 500,000 samples from the posterior
distribution with a thinning of 10. The exact number of samples from the MCMC will be
determined based on convergence diagnostics to ensure an adequate effective sample size
of the posterior distribution.

Summaries of the Bayesian posterior distribution for the DRR under the regimen-specific
active treatment, exp(ߠଵ ), will be provided including the mean and 95% credible intervals;
the probability that the treatment is superior to placebo, ܲ‫( ݎ‬exp(ߠଵ ) < 1); and the
probability the treatment slows the rate of progression by at least 10%, ܲ‫( ݎ‬exp(ߠଵ ) < .9).


3.0 Success Thresholds, Interim Analyses and Trial Adaptations

Interim analyses will occur simultaneously for all actively enrolling regimens. Interims will
begin after at least one regimen within the master protocol has 40 randomized participants
with the opportunity to complete at least 24 weeks of follow-up. Subsequent interims will
occur approximately every 12 weeks. At an interim analysis, a regimen can either stop

                                                                                        Page 40 of 62
