Cudkowicz (PI) HEALEY ALS Platform Trial: Master Statistical Analysis Plan   Version 3.0, 06 Feb 2023



6.0 Example Trials and Operating Characteristics

For each scenario and treatment effect we simulate 10000 clinical trials. We present
example simulated trials as well as overall average operating characteristics across all
simulated trials. For each simulation scenario and treatment effect, we report the following
regimen-specific operating characteristics for the first regimen:

     x   Mean duration (months)
     x   Mean sample size randomized to the regimen
     x   Probability of early success, total probability of success, and cumulative probability
         of stopping for success as a function of trial duration.
     x   Probability of early futility and cumulative probability of stopping for futility as a
         function of trial duration.
     x   Average estimate of the treatment effect and estimate of the treatment effect as a
         function of total trial duration.

6.1 Operating Characteristics Base Scenarios

Table 6.1.1 shows the overall operating characteristics for a single regimen under the
master protocol recommended design for the Base simulation scenarios with futility
stopping. Additionally, Table 6.1.2 summarizes the observed treatment effect estimates in
each simulated trial as a function of the trial duration and outcome.

Under the null scenario there is an overall one-sided Type I error rate of 2.4% for the
regimen. The average duration of the regimen is 14 months. There is a 28.0% chance that
the regimen will be stopped early for futility.

The master protocol recommended design has 61%, 77%, and 88% power to detect a
slowing in the rate of disease progression of 25%, 30% and 35% respectively when
mortality and function have a common treatment effect. When there is no benefit in
mortality and a 30% slowing in ALSFRS-R progression the power drops from 77% to 72%.
When there is a negative effect on mortality and a 30% slowing in ALSFRS-R progression,
the power drops further to 68%. Finally, there is less than 1% chance in these scenarios
that the regimen will be stopped early for futility.

Given the expected accrual rate, interim analyses will begin approximately 7 months into
the trial. Therefore, the final analysis for a regimen is expected to occur around 16 months
after that regimen is initiated. Table 6.1.2 summarizes the observed treatment effect
estimates that would lead to early stopping for futility or final success. If a regimen stops at
the first interim analysis for futility, the average treatment effect estimate (DRR) is 1.35.
The smallest observed DRR stopping for futility at this look across all simulated trials was
1.13, corresponding to a 13-35% increase in the rate of disease progression for treatment
relative to placebo. At later analyses, 10-13 months from the start of the regimen, the
average treatment effect estimate (DRR) observed among regimens that stopped for futility
was 1.16-1.21 and the smallest observed DRR across all simulated trials observed to stop

                                                                                        Page 48 of 62
