                                     Statistical Analysis Plan

Sensitivity is defined as the proportion of subjects obtaining a positive test result among the
diseased subjects.
Manufacturer’s threshold (17 μg Hb/g feces) as well as FD Hb/Hp Complex quick test threshold
for positivity (10.2 μg Hb/g feces) will be considered.
The analysis will test the null hypothesis of no change in sensitivity after the intake of a single
dose of acetylsalicylic acid, as compared to placebo. It will be performed on participants in the
per-protocol analysis set providing samples at day 2.
Wald adjusted confidence intervals will be computed for sensitivity values (Agresti-Coull
adjustment) (7) and the differences between placebo and intervention group (Agresti-Caffo
adjustment) (8). Statistical significance will be defined by a two-sided p-value <0.05.


5.5   Secondary analyses

The secondary analyses will evaluate the sensitivity of the FD Hb/Hp Complex quick test, the
area under the ROC curve for the FOBGold®Tube Screen test, as well as the specificities, the
likelihood ratios, the positive and negative predictive values for the detection of advanced
neoplasms for both tests, and number of iFOBTs and number of colonoscopies after a positive
iFOBT needed to detect one advanced neoplasm.
Positivity of the FD Hb/Hp Complex quick test will be defined by either a positive or weakly
positive test result.
Specificity is defined as the proportion of subjects obtaining a negative test result among the
healthy subjects. Positive predictive value is defined as the proportion of diseased subjects
among the subjects obtaining a positive test result, while negative predictive value is defined
as the proportion of healthy subjects among the subjects obtaining a negative test result.
Likelihood ratio for a given test result is defined as the ratio between the proportion of subjects
obtaining the given test result among the diseased subjects, and among the healthy subjects.
The ROC curve is obtained by plotting the proportion of subjects obtaining a positive test result
among the healthy subjects against sensitivity, for increasing thresholds of test positivity.
Number of iFOBTs and number of colonoscopies after a positive iFOBT needed to detect one
advanced neoplasm for a given test are defined as the ratio between the total number of
performed iFOBTs and the number of subjects obtaining a positive test result among the
diseased subjects, and the ratio between the total number of positive iFOBTs (thus leading to
colonoscopy) and the number of subjects obtaining a positive test result among the diseased
subjects, respectively.
The null hypothesis of no change in sensitivity of the FD Hb/Hp Complex quick test, as well as
specificities, positive or negative predictive values after the intake of single dose of
acetylsalicylic acid of both tests, as compared to placebo, will be tested. Wald adjusted
confidence intervals will be computed for the estimated values (Agresti-Coull adjustment) (7)
and the differences between placebo and intervention group (Agresti-Caffo adjustment) (8).
Statistical significance will be defined by a two-sided p-value <0.05. Wald adjusted confidence
intervals will also be computed for the estimated number of iFOBTs and number of
colonoscopies after a positive iFOBT needed to detect one advanced neoplasm (Agresti-Coull
adjustment) (7).
The total and partial area under the curve (truncated at specificity equal to 0.8) in ROC
analyses for the FOBGold®Tube Screen test will be computed, and their significance tested
at level 0.05, using the DeLong et al. (9) method or bootstrap, as implemented in the pROC R
package (10). The ROC curve will be plotted.
Additionally, a generalized mixed effects model for binomial data with logit link function having
sensitivity or specificity as response variables, and intervention group, sex, test and day of
stool sample collection as explanatory variables, will be fitted. Replicate measurements on the
same participant will be accounted for by a random intercept.
The analyses will be performed on participants in the per-protocol and intention-to-screen
analysis set providing samples at day 2.
Changes in sensitivity and specificity across days of stool sample collection will be plotted. The
specificity and sensitivity values will be computed for the per-protocol analysis set at day “0”
                                                                                                 8
