                                        Statistical Analysis Plan

3     Analysis variables

3.1       Demography and baseline characteristics

The following demographic variables will be collected and used for stratification purposes or
description of the full analysis set:

      x    Sex Categorical variable with two levels: male or female;
      x    Year of consent Quantitative variable, expressed in years.
      x    Year of birth Quantitative variable, expressed in years.
      x    Primary indication of colonoscopy Categorical variable with two levels: screening or
           diagnostic.
      x    Weight Quantitative variable, expressed in Kg;
      x    Height Quantitative variable, expressed in cm;
      x    Smoking status Categorical variable with two levels: (current) smoker or nonsmoker.


3.2       Primary variables

The primary variable will be represented by the sensitivity of the FOBGold®Tube Screen test
to detect advanced neoplasms (colorectal cancer or advanced adenoma). It will be obtained
from the following observed variables:

      x    Quantitative test outcome of the FOBGold®Tube Screen test Quantitative variable,
           expressed in ng Hb/ml Buffer.

      x    Categorical test outcome of the FOBGold®Tube Screen test Categorical variable
           with three levels: positive, negative or invalid test result. Positivity is defined at the
           manufacturer’s threshold and a lower threshold (17 μg Hb/g feces and 10.2 Hb/g
           feces).

      x    Most advanced finding at colonoscopy Categorical variable with eight levels:
           colorectal cancer, advanced adenoma, sessile serrated polyp greater or equal to 1cm,
           sessile serrated polyp smaller than 1cm, non-advanced adenoma, hyperplastic polyp,
           undefined polyp, no finding.


Secondary variables

The secondary variables will include sensitivity of the FD Hb/Hp Complex quick test, the area
under the ROC curve for the FOBGold®Tube Screen test, as well as the specificities, the
likelihood ratios, and the positive and negative predictive values of both tests, for detection of
advanced neoplasms. Number of iFOBTs and number of colonoscopies after a positive iFOBT
needed to detect one advanced neoplasm will also be evaluated. The following additional
observed variable will be required:

      x    Test outcome of the FD Hb/Hp Complex quick test Categorical variable with four
           levels: positive, weakly positive, negative, or invalid test result.




                                                                                                   6
