337   Kellams, Kathryn Heck,RN, IBCLC and the social marketing consultants. Focus groups will be
338   used to test and refine the video messaging (see section C4 for focus group methods).
339   C3b. mHealth Intervention. Recruited mothers will receive routine postpartum care, including
340   safe sleep education from the nursery staff (who have received either the Safe Sleep or
341   Breastfeeding Nursery Education). Within 72 hours of enrollment, participants will begin to
342   receive email messages on safe sleep or breastfeeding, determined by the group assignment,
343   which will continue on a twice-weekly basis until the infant is 2 months of age. We will be using
344   an email platform developed by our mHealth consultant David Mathison, MD, MBA (letter of
345   support attached), pediatric emergency physician and CEO of healthEworks, who has received
346   NIH funding to create and evaluate mobile Video PrescriptionsTM sent via email to pediatric
347   emergency department patients. A sample algorithm for sleep position messages for the Safe
348   Sleep mHealth groups is in Table 1. The messages will be interactive and tailored to participant
349   responses. Similar algorithms have been developed for roomsharing, soft bedding, pacifier use,
350   and for the Breastfeeding mHealth education.
351   Table 1: Sample Algorithm for Sleep Position Messages
      Intervention Component          Sample Message/Content
      Introduction to program            Welcome to SMART
                                         As part of this study, we will send you messages twice a week for 2 months.
                                          What time of day would you like your message? (interactive)
      Encouragement of supine            Check out this video here! It will help you keep (Baby’s Name) safe while
      sleep position                      s/he sleeps! (Personalized)
                                         Video: rationale for supine sleep position
                                         Did you have a chance to see the video that we sent you?
                                         If NO- provide link for video again
                                         If YES: Did you like the video?
      Addressing barriers to supine      Do you worry that (Baby’s Name) might choke if s/he is sleeping on the
      sleep position                      back?
      (choking/aspiration)               If YES: Look at this video here. It talks about why you don’t have to worry
                                          about (Baby’s name) choking while on the back
                                         Did you have a chance to see the video about choking that we
                                          recommended?
                                         If NO – provide link for video again
                                         If YES: Did you like the video?
      Addressing barriers to supine      Does (Baby’s Name) ever have trouble falling or staying asleep on the back?
      sleep position (infant comfort)    If YES: This video here talks about ways to help your baby sleep on the
                                          back.
                                         Did you have a chance to see the video about helping your baby sleep?
                                         If NO – provide link for video again
                                         If YES: Did you like the video?
352   C4. Focus group methodology.
353        Focus groups will be conducted with nursery staff to obtain qualitative data to inform the
354   Safe Sleep and Breastfeeding Nursery Education curricula. In addition, in focus groups, we will
355   test all videos with members of the target audience for content validity, effectiveness, and
356   cultural sensitivity. Drs. Colson, Hauck, and Kellams will coordinate the focus groups, and our
357   social marketing and cultural competence consultants will advise us in this process. Mothers
358   eligible for focus groups will be English-speaking, have infants <6 months of age (as young
359   infants are at highest risk for sleep-related death), and have regular (at least weekly) email
360   access. Participants for each maternal focus group will be fairly homogeneous with regard to
361   SES and race/ethnicity, as homogeneity increases the comfort level of the participants, resulting
362   in increased willingness to share thoughts and opinions.77 Nursery focus groups will be
363   comprised of newborn nursery nursing staff. Based on past experience, we believe that 3-5
364   focus groups per subgroup will be sufficient for analysis of themes and patterns. If new themes
365   are still emerging at the end of these focus groups, more will be conducted until thematic
366   saturation is reached. Each focus group will have 6-8 participants. To aid in recruitment, $50
