                                                                                   Said LEBBAH/
 EMPROTECT                                  20/03/2024
                                                                              Agnès DECHARTRES


3.9 Missing data management

In the primary endpoint analysis, a multiple imputation method will be implemented for patients
who cannot be evaluated for the main endpoint.
 The Multiple Imputation by Chained Equations (MICE) technique will be used to replace missing
values. The variables used in the imputation phase will be recurrence at 6 months, age, sex,
unilateral or bilateral nature of CHDS and use of anticoagulant/antiplatelet as well as the
characteristics of CSDH at inclusion, namely: Type of CSDH (initial episode or recurrence), proven
recent head trauma, GCS score, ASA score, focal neurological deficit, hemiparesis, phasic disorder,
gait disorder, headache , maximum thickness of the SDH, Park classification, type of surgery (burr
hole, Trephine craniotomy), complications (infection, subdural empyema, epileptic seizure
occurring during surgery or immediately afterward ). Analyses will be carried out using R software
and the mice package. 10 datasets will be generated. The results from each imputed dataset will
be pooled using Rubin's rules to obtain overall estimates and their standard errors.



3.10 Different versions of the statistical analysis plan and changes made

Any modification to the initial analysis plan (SAP) will be subject to justification described in the
study report.
    • A first SAP version was carried out before database lock for the interim analysis
    • This version is prepared before database lock for the final analysis

 PAS Version              Date                    Analysis               Modifications
 1                        2022/07/11              Interim
 2                        2024/02/28              Final                      1. Changing the
                                                                                definition of
                                                                                recurrence in
                                                                                case of death.
                                                                                Only death from
                                                                                neurological or
                                                                                undetermined
                                                                                cause will be
                                                                                considered as
                                                                                CSDH recurrence
                                                                             2.    Adding a
                                                                                  sensitivity
                                                                                  analysis: Analysis
                                                                                  without patients
                                                                                  wrongly
                                                                                  included (ie,
                                                                                  patients
                                                                                  presenting at
                                                                                  least one non-
                                                                                  inclusion criteria
                                                                                  or not all


                                                                                                8/9
