                                                                                   Said LEBBAH/
 EMPROTECT                                  20/03/2024
                                                                              Agnès DECHARTRES


The conditional power will also be estimated by simulations with the assumptions leading to the
calculation of the necessary number of subjects knowing the recurrence rates observed during the
interim analysis. It will be given for information to the independent Data Safety Monitoring Board
(DSMB). Stopping the trial for futility could possibly be decided if the conditional power is
considered by the DSMB to be excessively low. However, no futility limit is provided.

In the event of a decision to stop the study, following the interim analysis, for rejection of the
hypothesis of equality of CSDH recurrences rates between the two groups at the nominal
threshold of alpha at 0.001, the final analysis will include the patients analyzed who led to the
decision to stop, as well as all the patients for whom the primary endpoint could be collected
subsequently (over-running patients). Likewise, we will continue to monitor included patients who
have already benefited from embolization until 6 months and they will be included in the final
analysis.

The interim analysis has been carried out and the results did not meet the predefined stopping
rule. Therefore, the DSMB recommended to continue the trial.


Final analysis of the primary endpoint
    • Primary analysis
The primary analysis will be the analysis of the primary outcome as assessed by the adjudication
committee, in the intention-to-treat population, using a mixed logistic regression model adjusted
on randomization stratification factors. The randomization group (intervention versus control),
the use of anticoagulant/antiplatelet, the unilateral or bilateral nature of the SDH will be included
as fixed effects and the center will be introduced as a random effect (to take into account the
multicenter nature of the study). An adjusted absolute risk difference, in the recurrence rate at 6
months, will also be estimated as well as its 95% confidence interval using bootstrap.
Missing data will be imputed using multiple imputation and patients deceased without recurrence,
with a cause of death considered to be neurological or undetermined, will be considered as
treatment failure.
    • Subgroup analyses
Two subgroup analyses for the primary outcome will be performed according to the unilateral
versus bilateral CSDH status and anticoagulant/antiplatelet therapy medication status
(yes vs no). For the two analyses, we will test interaction between randomization group and the
two variables, respectively, in the logistic model describe above.

   • Sensitivity analyses
The primary analysis will be completed with sensitivity analyses:
          o Analysis without adjudication of the recurrence of CSDH (assessment of the
              primary outcome by on-site investigators)
          o Analysis in the intent to treat population but without imputation (ie, lost to follow-
              up will be considered as no event)
          o Analysis without patients who did not receive embolization in the experimental
              arm (following CT angiography or for other reasons) if any (ie, modified intent to
              treat analysis)
           o Analysis without patients wrongly included (ie, patients presenting at least one
              non-inclusion criteria or not all inclusion criteria) if any


                                                                                                6/9
