Research Original Investigation Telehealth and Online Cognitive Behavioral Therapy for Chronic Pain
randomly sampled with stratification by urban vs rural/ tive training in 1 or more evidence-based pain-coping skills.
medically underserved residence (based on census tract/ When the RESOLVE study began in 2021, prior efficacy and fea-
geocoded data).30,31 The monthly sample was mailed a recruit- sibility studies had demonstrated high acceptability and effi-
ment letter and, if feasible, sent an email approximately 5 days cacy of painTRAINER in reducing pain among populations with
later and followed up with telephone calls. Patients com- pain related to osteoarthritis or systemic lupus erythemato-
pleted the eligibility screening, which assessed for high- sus in the rural US35,41 and Australia.42 RESOLVE participants
impact chronic pain, technology access, and current or planned self-completed approximately 1 session per week, with all 8
therapies, either by telephone or via the study website. If eli- intended to be completed within 12 weeks after randomiza-
gible, patients completed the informed consent by telephone tion. Participants were assisted in registering via an indi-
or web at that time or scheduled a later time to complete the vidual onboarding telephone call and had access to the pro-
consent. The baseline assessment could be completed follow- gram for the year of study participation. Research staff also
ing consent either by telephone with research staff or via provided technical support and outreach to encourage en-
a Research Electronic Data Capture (REDCap) survey. Further gagement if session completion differed from the recom-
details regarding recruitment are provided in the published mended completion schedule in prespecified ways (eg, >10
protocol.25 days since the last session was completed or ≥3 sessions com-
After completing the baseline assessment, participants pleted in 9 days). No treatment content guidance was pro-
were individually randomized in a 1:1:1 ratio, stratified by sex, vided during these contacts.
baseline pain severity score (<7 vs ≥7), clinical site, and rural
or medically underserved residency (yes vs no). Within each Usual Care Plus
stratum a random permutated block design was used with ran- Participants in this group received a mailed copy of the Ameri-
dom variable block sizes of 3, 6, or 9. The National Institutes can Chronic Pain Association Resource Guide to Chronic Pain
of Health (NIH), Helping to End Addiction Long-term (HEAL), Management, 2020 edition.24 The guide provides comprehen-
Pain Management Effectiveness Research Network statistical sive information describing a broad range of pain manage-
and data coordinating center biostatisticians (R.E.T., T.C.C.) de- ment modalities, such as medications; nutrition; exercise;
veloped and implemented the randomization scheme, which complementary, alternative, and integrative medicine; and bio-
was integrated into and occurred within the study’s secure, psychosocial strategies. The guide aims to inform individuals
web-based, electronic data capture system at baseline REDCap in making treatment decisions with their clinician and does not
survey completion. The research staff conducting eligibility as- advise on treatments.
sessments and enrollment were blinded to group assign-
ments, as were outcome assessors. Main Outcomes and Measures
Primary and secondary outcomes were assessed at baseline
Interventions (prerandomization) and at 3, 6, and 12 months following ran-
All groups could receive pain treatment as usual. Interven- domization. Outcome assessments were completed via on-
tion descriptions are provided in Supplement 3 using the TI- line survey (REDCap), by telephone with study staff, or by
DieR (Template for Intervention Description and Replica- postal mail, based on participant preference.
tion) guideline.32 The 8-session CBT-CP interventions are based
on programs developed33-38 and refined39,40 by 2 authors Primary Outcome
(L.L.D., F.J.K.) in prior studies. The primary outcome was attaining or exceeding a minimal
clinically important difference (MCID) in pain severity, de-
Health Coach Program fined as a 30% or greater decrease in pain score43 from base-
The health coach program included 8 sessions of CBT-CP– line (prerandomization) to 3 months. Pain severity score, a com-
based skills training provided one-on-one via either tele- posite of pain intensity and pain-related interference, was
phone or videoconferencing per participant preference. The measured by an 11-item version of the Brief Pain Inventory–
12 health coaches had master’s-level behavioral health train- Short Form (BPI-SF), which has demonstrated reliability and
ing (without previous training in chronic pain management) validity.44-47 The score is the calculated mean of all 11 items;
and were centrally based at the Kaiser Permanente North- the range is 0 to 10, with a higher score indicating worse pain
west and Kaiser Permanente Washington clinical study sites, severity. All 4 items of the pain intensity subscale and at
enabling consistent and efficient supervision and fidelity moni- least 4 of the 7 items in the pain-related interference subscale
toring. Sessions, scheduled at the participant’s convenience, were required to score pain severity. Secondary time points
lasted about 45 to 60 minutes, with approximately 1 per week. for the primary outcome were 6 and 12 months following
Participants were asked to complete all 8 sessions within the randomization.
12 weeks following randomization.
Secondary Outcomes
Online Program Secondary outcomes included attaining or exceeding an
The painTRAINER program is an online, 8-session, CBT-CP- MCID (30% improvement in score from baseline) in pain
based skills training program that can be accessed free of charge intensity and pain-related interference scores (4-item and
at https://mypaintrainer.org. Each session requires approxi- 7-item subscales of the BPI-SF, respectively; range, 0-10, with
mately 30 to 45 minutes to complete and provides interac- higher scores indicating worse pain intensity or interference).
594 JAMA August 19, 2025 Volume 334, Number 7 (Reprinted) jama.com
© 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.
Downloaded from jamanetwork.com by University of Arizona Health Sciences Library user on 07/23/2026
