care plus [n = 63 with 82 events], 7.1% for painTRAINER [n = 55
Figure 2. Adjusted Percentage With 30% or Greater Reduction
with 81 events], and 8.4% for health coach [n = 65 with 84
in Pain Severity (Primary Outcome)
events]) and deaths (0.9% for usual care plus [n = 7], 0.4% for
painTRAINER [n = 3], and 0.9% for health coach [n = 7]). 60
No hospitalizations or deaths were identified as related or
possibly related to study participation. Nonserious adverse 50
events were not systematically collected and only ascer-
40
tained via patient-initiated report, biasing collection to the in-
tervention groups with more staff contact. Sixteen adverse
30
events were reported by participants in the health coach group
(2.0%); the majority were mild and unrelated to the interven- 20
tion. One adverse event was reported in the painTRAINER
group (0.1%), and no adverse events were reported by the usual 10
care plus group.
0
Discussion
Among adults with high-impact chronic musculoskeletal pain,
CBT-CP delivered by both remote formats resulted in greater
improvement in pain severity after treatment (at 3 months)
compared with usual care plus a resource guide and a larger
effect for those in the health coach group than among those
in the painTRAINER group. The modest benefit of active CBT-
based interventions over usual care was sustained during
longer-term follow-up (6 and 12 months), with no relative ben- ondary outcomes despite lower adherence, informing under-
efit observed for the health coach group compared with the standing of the effect of offering such remote CBT programs
painTRAINER group at these later points. Patterns of findings as they would likely be delivered in clinical care.
for secondary, broader pain outcomes as well as for patient- Outcomes between the 2 remote CBT-CP programs at 6-
valued outcomes beyond pain-specific domains (ie, physical and 12-month follow-up did not differ, suggesting that cen-
and social functioning, patient global impression of change) tralized delivery of either modality can be offered to patients
showed similar patterns of improvement sustained over the in areas lacking clinicians with expertise in CBT-CP. Further,
year of the study. this suggests that painTRAINER may provide effective pain
Systematic reviews and meta-analyses examining the ef- management for many patients with high-impact chronic
fect of CBT for chronic pain have reported reliable, sustained, pain. An important caveat, however, is that the intervention
and statistically significant but modest effects.60-62 As such, adherence for the online painTRAINER intervention was sub-
the modest sustained benefits observed here are consistent stantively lower than that observed in the health coach
with findings from other RCTs. Trials assessing other non- group. As a pragmatically oriented effectiveness trial, the goal
pharmacologic (eg, acupuncture, mindfulness programs, was to provide onboarding and light outreach support for
exercise, and spinal manipulation)5 and pharmacologic ap- painTRAINER group participants that mirrors the kind of sup-
proaches for management of chronic pain63,64 have reported port that could reasonably be offered by a medical assistant
benefits of similar magnitude. Collectively, these reviews and or ancillary health care staff in a primary care setting. As such,
meta-analyses assessing chronic pain treatments suggest that an important aspect of the study was to provide estimates of
CBT has reliable beneficial effects consistent with the find- adherence and treatment effects that could be achieved in real-
ings reported in this trial. Because this pragmatic-oriented world clinical settings. While other means of support could
effectiveness trial has several features that might attenuate have increased adherence to the online program (eg, video visit
benefits, the findings are an important contribution. Specifi- onboarding or a guided self-help approach in which a thera-
cally, there have been recent calls by the Centers for Disease pist routinely checks in with the patient’s progress), such ap-
Control and Prevention and others to focus treatment on in- proaches do not represent the most common and feasible
dividuals experiencing the most disabling effects of chronic means of providing online CBT-based programs in integrated
pain2,65,66—yet, to our knowledge, this is the first trial to screen health care systems.
for and exclusively enroll individuals meeting criteria for high- This study addresses existing gaps in the CBT-CP litera-
impact chronic pain. This is a population for whom attenua- ture. The focus on patients with high-impact chronic pain is
tion in the effect of remote CBT-based interventions might be important because it characterizes individuals for whom
expected, particularly when delivered in a manner congru- pain-related functional limitations are marked and who have
ent with everyday clinical practice (ie, limited outreach for often tried several pain-related treatments without success.
treatment nonadherence). The active study interventions dem- Additional strengths include the size and geographic diver-
onstrated the benefits observed in pain-related and other sec- sity of the sample. Roughly 40% of participants were from
%03
htiw
egatnecrep
detsujdA
noitcuder
ytireves
niap
Telehealth and Online Cognitive Behavioral Therapy for Chronic Pain Original Investigation Research
Usual care plus
painTRAINER Health coach
3 6 12
Primary
Months since randomization
Observed No.
Usual care plus 621 622 639
painTRAINER 542 547 583
Health coach 635 621 639
The primary outcome occurred at 3 months. Whiskers indicate 95% CIs.
Adjustment of outcomes is explained in footnote b of Table 2.
jama.com (Reprinted) JAMA August 19, 2025 Volume 334, Number 7 599
© 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.
Downloaded from jamanetwork.com by University of Arizona Health Sciences Library user on 07/23/2026
