Telehealth and Online Cognitive Behavioral Therapy for Chronic Pain Original Investigation Research
A
pproximately 8.5% of US adults experience high-
impact chronic pain (pain lasting 3 months or longer Key Points
and accompanied by at least 1 major life or work-
Question How effective are remote, scalable cognitive behavioral
related activity limitation).1,2 High-impact chronic pain is more therapy skills training programs for chronic pain (CBT-CP) for
prevalent among rural populations, who also experience individuals with high-impact chronic pain?
greater pain-related disability, depression, and difficulties
Findings In this randomized clinical trial that included 2331
accessing health care services compared with those in urban
participants, both the telephonic/video health coach-led and the
regions.1,3,4 Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) is a widely online self-completed CBT-CP programs resulted in a significantly
accepted and effective nonpharmacologic treatment for chronic greater proportion of participants achieving at least 30%
pain,5 with benefits among low-literacy, rural populations.6 improvement from baseline in pain severity at 3 months compared
Calls for wider implementation of CBT for chronic pain with usual care. Intervention benefits were sustained at 12
months, and the 3-month outcome was better for those in the
(CBT-CP) recognize that barriers exist at patient, clinician,
health coach group vs the online self-completed program.
and health care system levels, notably the paucity of appro-
priately trained clinicians and their concentration in urban Meaning These remote, scalable CBT-CP programs are effective
areas.7-9 for treating individuals with high-impact chronic pain.
Telehealth and online treatment programs offer ways to
increase access to CBT-CP,7,10-14 and overall use and accept-
ability of remote services for chronic disease management have has been published25; the statistical analysis plan is included
increased markedly since the COVID-19 pandemic.15-17 Prior as Supplement 2. The CONSORT (Consolidated Standards of
studies have demonstrated clinically meaningful benefits of Reporting Trials) guidelines were followed.26 Participants
telephone-based CBT-CP in the context of multicomponent were recruited from January 2021 through February 2023.
interventions.12,18,19 Online CBT-CP programs have also dem- Follow-up occurred from April 2021 to April 2024.
onstrated effectiveness for reducing pain and pain-related Recruitment occurred at 4 health care systems: (1) Kaiser
impairment.14,20,21 Remote treatment is promising for lower- PermanenteGeorgia,servingnorthernGeorgia;(2)KaiserPerma-
ing costs; overcoming patient, clinician, and system barriers; nente Northwest, serving Oregon and southwest Washington;
and having greater safety compared with pharmacologic pain (3) Kaiser Permanente Washington, serving Washington and
treatments.14,20-22 Idaho; and (4) Essentia Health, serving northern Minnesota,
The RESOLVE randomized clinical trial (RCT) examined eastern North Dakota, and northern Wisconsin. Eligible partici-
the comparative effectiveness of 2 remote interventions for pants were 18 years or older, English-speaking, receiving care
delivering CBT-CP (a health coach–led telephonic/video- in the health care system for the past year, had internet/
conferencing program and a self-completed online program) telephone access, and met the following clinical criteria based
at improving pain-related outcomes and functioning for on electronic health record data (ie, ICD-10-CM [International
patients with high-impact chronic pain, compared with one Classification of Diseases, Tenth Revision, Clinical Modifica-
another and with usual care. As a pragmatically oriented tion] codes) and self-report:
RCT, the study was designed to compare the added value of 1. One or more (Essentia) or 2 or more (Kaiser Permanente) out-
treatment strategies delivered under routine clinical practice patient encounters more than 60 days apart for nonmalig-
conditions with usual medical care.23 The study hypothesis nant musculoskeletal pain27 within the past 360 days
was that both remote CBT-CP interventions would result in 2. High-impact chronic pain determined by the Graded Chronic
improved pain-related outcomes compared with usual care. Pain Scale–Revised28
3. Pain score 12 or greater on the PEG (Pain, Enjoyment of Life,
General Activity) scale (a 3-item scale assessing pain inten-
sity and interference,29 scored as sum of items; total range,
Methods
0 to 30; higher score indicates worse pain)
Study Design and Participants 4. No surgery encounter for common musculoskeletal pain
The RESOLVE RCT was approved by the Vanderbilt Univer- conditions within the past 60 days
sity Medical Center institutional review board. A waiver of 5. No malignant cancer diagnosis (except nonmelanoma skin
written informed consent was granted and informed consent cancer) within the past 60 days
was obtained (verbally or electronically) from all partici- 6. No hospice or palliative care within the past 360 days
pants. This phase 3, comparative effectiveness, parallel- 7. No CBT, psychoeducation, or behavioral skills training for
group design RCT randomized patients in equal ratio to 1 of 3 pain management within the past 6 months or currently/
study groups. One group received 8 one-on-one sessions next month
with a health coach via telephone or video conference. The 8. No inpatient or intensive outpatient services for substance
second group self-completed an 8-session, online CBT-CP use disorders currently/next month
program (painTRAINER). The health coach and online 9. No planned/scheduled surgery related to pain condition
CBT-CP programs had similar content. The third group (usual within the next 12 months
care plus) received a mailed copy of the American Chronic Each month during the 26-month recruitment period, sites
Pain Association Resource Guide to Chronic Pain Manage- queried their electronic health record virtual data ware-
ment.24 The trial protocol is included as Supplement 1 and houses to identify potentially eligible patients, who were then
jama.com (Reprinted) JAMA August 19, 2025 Volume 334, Number 7 593
© 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.
Downloaded from jamanetwork.com by University of Arizona Health Sciences Library user on 07/23/2026
