Effect of Behavioral Therapy and Supplements on MDD Among Overweight and Obese Adults Original Investigation Research

Food-Related Behavioral Activation Therapy risk groups were found to reduce the onset of depression by
Food-related behavioral activation therapy consisted of a 25% to 50%.3 Assuming a 33% reduction of MDD onset
protocol-based intervention that incorporated standard between active (20% MDD onset) vs control conditions (30%
behavioral activation approaches. Behavioral activation is MDD onset),26,27 392 participants (196 in each of the 4 pos-
effective in depression treatment17 and includes self- sible intervention combinations) were needed to evaluate
monitoring, functional analysis, and activity scheduling. the main effect of each of the 2 nutritional interventions
Food-related behavioral activation applied these proven (vs respective control) assuming a 2-sided test at α = .05 and
techniques to improve mood by changing dietary habits, a power of (1−β) = .90. Assuming a follow-up attrition rate of
food-related behaviors (eg, snacking), increasing positive 22%, 250 participants per intervention combination were
behaviors, and emphasizing a Mediterranean-style diet, needed. This corresponds to an absolute difference of 10%,
which has been related to reduced depression onset.4 which is consistent with the assumed clinically relevant dif-
A maximum of 21 sessions were provided (15 individual, ference in depression onset, estimated by consulting clinical
6 group) for 1 year (see eAppendix 3 in Supplement 3). No experts and stakeholders (eg, health insurance companies),
active (eg, attention) control condition was provided in reported in a previous depression prevention trial.28
those receiving no therapy.
Statistical Methods
Outcomes Participants were analyzed according to their randomization
Primary Outcome group, including all participants randomized regardless
The primary outcome was the 12-month cumulative onset of of intervention actually received or study withdrawal. The 2
an episode of MDD, defined according to standard psychiat- nutritional interventions were effect coded (−1 indicating
ricDiagnosticandStatisticalManualofMentalDisorders(Fourth control and 1 indicating intervention) and jointly modeled to
Edition) criteria and was measured with the depression sec- efficiently study main effects and interactions as recom-
tion of the MINI 5.016 at 3, 6, and 12 months. mended for factorial designs.29 All analyses were adjusted for
study site and history of MDD. Missing data for the trial end
Secondary Outcomes pointswereaccountedforusingmultipleimputationunderthe
Secondary trial outcomes were depression severity (PHQ-9, missing at random assumption into 100 data sets. Results were
range 0-27, with higher values indicating higher severity,15 pooled using the Rubin rules.30
Inventory of Depressive Symptomatology; IDS30-SR, range Logistic regression analyses were conducted to estimate
0-84, with higher values indicating higher severity),18 anxi- effects of the interventions on the primary outcome. Cox pro-
ety severity (Generalized Anxiety Disorder 7 Item Scale portional hazard modeling was used to study intervention
[GAD-7], range 0-21, with higher values indicating higher effects on time to first MDD onset (3, 6, or 12 months for
severity),19 health-related quality of life (utility, EuroQol either MDD onset or last available measurement) as post hoc
instrument [EQ-5D-5L],20 using the value sets for England,21 analysis. Scaled Schoenfeld residuals were used to test
range 0-1, with higher values indicating better health utility), the proportionality of hazard assumption, which was
eating behavior (3-factor eating questionnaire [TEFQ-R18], met (P > .05). For secondary outcomes, generalized estimat-
all 3 factors ranging from 0-100, with higher values indicat- ing equations (GEE) longitudinal analysis of covariance
ing poorer eating behavior)22 food behavior, food intake (ANCOVA) with an exchangeable correlation structure was
(Global Allergy and Asthma European Network [GA2LEN] used,31 modeling outcomes at 3, 6, and 12 months as depen-
food frequency questionnaire23), physical activity and dent variables and adjusting for their corresponding baseline
sedentary behavior (short questionnaire to assess health- values. Overall follow-up effects (including all follow-up
enhancing physical activity [SQUASH]24), and body weight assessments) and 12-month effects of the interventions for
perception (Stunkard et al25). This article reports on the men- these secondary follow-up outcomes were tested.31 Because
tal health secondary outcomes depression severity (PHQ-9,15 of the potential for type I error due to multiple comparisons,
IDS30-SR),18 anxiety severity (GAD-7),19 and utility (EQ-5D- findings for analyses of secondary end points should be inter-
5L; eAppendix 4 in Supplement 3).20,21 Time to onset of first preted as exploratory. Effect modification of study site and
MDD episode was included for post hoc analyses. history of MDD was investigated with their corresponding
interaction terms with the interventions. Similarly, effect
Other Measures modification by baseline symptom severity was included as
Good adherence to interventions (attending ≥8 of 21 therapy post hoc analyses.
sessions, and taking ≥70% of the supplements during the 12 As GEE are known to be robust for missing data, GEE lon-
months) was defined a priori. A detailed description of these gitudinal ANCOVA without multiple imputation was carried
and other measures can be found in eAppendixes 5 and 6 in out as sensitivity analyses. A Cohen D value was calculated
Supplement 3. for each baseline, 12-month follow-up difference in second-
ary outcome between the intervention groups,32 using mul-
Sample Size tiple imputed data. Furthermore, complier average causal
Sample size was based on the primary outcome and effect (CACE) analyses33,34 were carried out with the multiple
accounted for the 2 × 2 factorial design. At the time the imputed data using structural equation modeling within
trial was designed, effective preventive interventions in high- STATA, to provide an estimate of intervention effects taking

jama.com (Reprinted) JAMA March 5, 2019 Volume 321, Number 9 861

© 2019 American Medical Association. All rights reserved.

Downloaded from jamanetwork.com by University of Arizona Health Sciences Library user on 07/30/2026
