                                                                                                                    17


SENSITIVITY ANALYSES
   A. Matching and index date sampling
      It was of interest to assess the sensitivity of the hazard ratio estimates from the fully-adjusted Cox models
      to two (2) components of the process used in obtaining non-surgical controls:


                –     Random-sampling of index dates
                –     Matching ratio

       The surgical index dates were randomly assigned to non-surgical controls five (5) times, and the matching
       ratio was tested at 1:1, 1:5, and 1:10, thus creating 15 datasets. The full-adjusted Cox models were run on
       each dataset (for all outcomes) and the hazard ratios and 95% confidence intervals for the treatment
       variable were obtained for each. The eFigure 4 displays the sampled index date iteration on the x-axis, the
       hazard ratio estimate on the y-axis, and individual curves for each matching ratio, for each outcome.


       As expected, the most amount of variation across the index date sampling datasets comes from a lower
       matching ratio (1:1) but stabilizes as the matching ratio gets larger. Overall, the differences in hazard ratios
       comparing the risk of 8 endpoints in surgical patients versus nonsurgical patients appear to be negligible in
       absolute terms in 15 datasets, and the estimates reported in the manuscript from a single dataset (with 1:5
       matching) would be reasonable.

       In the examined 15 datasets, HRs for primary and secondary composite endpoints, all-cause mortality, heart
       failure, and nephropathy were consistently significant. The HRs comparing the risk of incident
       cerebrovascular disease, coronary artery disease, and atrial fibrillation in surgical patients versus
       nonsurgical patients were significant in 13, 12, and 11 datasets, respectively.




© 2019 American Medical Association. All rights reserved.
