Supplementary Online Content
DeBar LL, Mayhew M, Wellman RD, et al. Telehealth and online cognitive behavioral therapy–
based treatments for high-impact chronic pain: a randomized clinical trial. JAMA. Published online
July 28, 2025. doi:10.1001/jama.2025.11178
RESOLVE Study Description of Interventions based on Template for Intervention Description
and Replication (TIDieR)
This supplementary material has been provided by the authors to give readers additional information
about their work

© 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data mining,
AI training, and similar technologies.

RESOLVE Study Description of Interventions Based on Template for Intervention Description and Replication (TIDieR)

WHY
Goal and
rationale of the
elements
essential to the
intervention

WHAT
Participant
Materials

Usual Care Plus
Goal: To allow participants to pursue pain
management-related care as they
normally would within their healthcare
system.
Rationale: Usual care comparison
enables assessment of beneﬁt of the
study interventions over what treatments
participants are already able to access to
help manage their pain. This is important
to understand from a clinical and
healthcare-implementation (cost)
perspective. The resource manual (“plus”)
provided to participants in this group was
consistent with educational materials for
healthcare self-management available to
patients in participating healthcare
systems.

American Chronic Pain Association
Resource Guide to Chronic Pain
Management 7, 2020 edition
This educational guide provides
comprehensive information describing the
spectrum of pain management modalities,
including passive, active and self-directed
interventions such as medications,
nutrition, exercise, complementary,
alternative and integrative medicine, and
biopsychosocial strategies. It is intended
to educate individuals and does not
advise or instruct on treatments but can

painTRAINER
Goal: To provide an online standardized
cognitive behavioral therapy for chronic pain
(CBT-CP)-based skills training program designed
to accommodate low-literacy participant needs
and allow individuals a ﬂexible approach to skills
training they can tailor (time/skill emphasis) to
their needs. The online format allowed a largely
self-directed approach provided at minimal
expense (i.e., not dependent on clinician
involvement and support limited to technical
help and engagement outreach).
Rationale: Self-directed CBT-CP-based skills
training allows for a ﬂexible, low-cost approach
that lowers barriers for high quality CBT-CPbased skills training for those with online access.
Multi-media features provided in an easy-to-use
format utilizing computerized algorithms (based
on expert clinician guidance) to tailor participant
experience and designed to enhance
development and sustained use of pain
management coping skills.
Participant Workbook: Mailed to participant prior
to ﬁrst contact from study staff. Includes
instructions for registering, unique program login
information, and details on “How to Use the
Program,” with screenshots and text describing
the website’s structure, features, how to use and
outlines of session content.
Program Website: (mypaintrainer.org)
Online sessions that must be completed in a predetermined order, each teaching one or more
evidence-based pain coping skill8; led by a
recorded “virtual coach” (audio to minimize
reading and support needs for low-literacy

Health Coach
Goal: To provide standardized cognitive
behavioral therapy for chronic pain (CBT-CP)based skills training with a focus on tailoring the
speciﬁc elements of the skills training approach
to participants’ circumstances in real time. Virtual
delivery lowers barriers for receipt of services for
those in rural/underserved regions of the country
or otherwise unable to access clinical providers
skilled in evidence-based behavioral pain
services. Interaction with a trained therapist to
enhance connectedness and accountability.
Rationale: CBT-CP-based program delivered by
centrally located, master's-level clinicians should
enable reinforcement of progress, tailored help
for participants in identifying and problem-solving
obstacles, while retaining beneﬁts of
standardized training, treatment adherence, and
scalability. Further, nonspeciﬁc elements of
therapist contact may enhance therapeutic
outcomes.

Participant Workbook: Mailed to participant prior
to ﬁrst contact from health coach. Includes
overview of each session (content on the
concepts and skills taught), worksheets to help
aid learning of concepts and to log skills practices
each week.
Participant Resources Website:
- 4 audio recordings of guided exercises lasting
5-20 min. (Breath Awareness, 3-Part Breath,
Progressive Muscle Relaxation, Guided
Imagery)

© 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.

RESOLVE Study Description of Interventions Based on Template for Intervention Description and Replication (TIDieR)
Usual Care Plus
help inform patients on treatment
decisions to be made in conjunction with
and approved by their healthcare provider.

Staff &
Interventionist
Materials
Procedures

None
Printed / hard copy of the resource guide
mailed to participants

painTRAINER
participants). Provides training in an easy-to-use
format that includes animated demonstrations,
interactive exercises, tips for working through
common barriers to behavior change/skills
practice, and tailored feedback to reinforce
learning.
Scripts for staff regarding onboarding and
engagement calls

-

Health Coach
2 instructional videos lasting 5 min. each
(Science of Thinking, Feeling and Responding
to Pain; Activity / Rest Cycle)
Access to electronic (PDF) version of
Workbook materials by session

Health coaches used Standardized Treatment
Manual (“Health Coach Manual”)

Eight participant self-completed online
sessions, 30-45 minutes each

Participants had Eight one-on-one sessions with
health coach, 45-60 minutes each

Participant workbook guided planning and goal
setting

Participant workbook with information on skills
practice and goal setting
Health coaches were master's-level behavioral
health practitioners with no prior training in
chronic pain management (n=12). Centralized
team based at 2 clinical study sites. Ongoing
supervision provided by clinical psychologist via
weekly hour-long team meetings.
Health coaches had approx. 34 hours didactic
and experiential coursework:
- 90-minute overview of pain psychology
For each session the coursework involved: 1)
detailed review and discussion of content in
treatment manual and participant workbook;
2) 1-hour, web-based, synchronous didactic
training; 3) role playing a participant with
clinical supervisor or other health coach; 4)
role play as health coach
- Clinical supervisors then reviewed for
proﬁciency at least 16 sessions completed
with real participants (2 instances for each of
the 8 sessions); proﬁciency required 100%
ﬁdelity in delivering session content and 80%
ﬁdelity on core CBT skills (i.e., ratings of

WHO PROVIDED
Expertise/
Background

Not applicable

Technical support provided by research staff
with prior administrative experience working
directly with study participants intended to
emulate what could be delivered by Medical
Assistant type outreach/support.

Training

Not applicable

Research staff who provided technical support
were given approximately 9 hours of training:
- 1-hour videoconference with painTRAINER
program developer, Christine Rini; provided
overview of program registration and
structure
- 3-hour online training on Motivational
Interviewing (MI) techniques provided to KP
employees
- 1-hour videoconference with study PI on
utilizing MI techniques during onboarding
and engagement calls
- 2 hours of onboarding and engagement call
script role play
- 2-hour videoconference with study project
manager on speciﬁc procedures for

© 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.

RESOLVE Study Description of Interventions Based on Template for Intervention Description and Replication (TIDieR)
Usual Care Plus

HOW

None

WHERE

Not applicable

painTRAINER
conducting onboarding and engagement
calls, i.e., logging contacts in study tracking
system
Research staff also given the opportunity to
complete each of the painTRAINER online
modules.
- Participants access painTRAINER via
website
- Participant has unique account with
username and password
Participant chose location of preference (home,
work, etc.) from which to complete online
sessions
Internet access required; format optimized by
computer (vs. smart phone) interface

WHEN and HOW
MUCH

Not applicable

Participants received:
- One onboarding and registration call
(approx. 15 min)
- Access 8 weekly online modules (30-45 min)
to be completed during 12-week treatment
period
- Tools to help do skills practice on own
between sessions (daily practice
encouraged)
- (If applicable) Phone outreach/contact by
study staff (MI-based “engagement calls”) if
not adhering to the recommended
completion schedule: > 7 days since
participant registered and session 1 not
initiated; initiated a session but incomplete
after > 7 days; >10 days since any session
completion date; and sessions completed
too quickly (3 or more sessions completed in
9 days). N=356 of the 776 in this study group
completed ≥1 outreach call with a staff

Health Coach
“adequate/good” or higher for each of the 9
domains on the modiﬁed Cognitive
Behavioral Therapy Skills Training for Chronic
Pain Therapist Rating Scale relevant for a
particular session)
-

Participant completed sessions by phone or
videoconference
Sessions were one-on-one with health coach

Participant chose private location of preference
(home, work, etc.) from which to complete
sessions
Phone access required; internet access for
videoconferencing optional according to
participant preference
Participants received:
- One onboarding and initial scheduling call
(approx. 10 min)
- 8 weekly sessions with health coach (45-60
min) to be completed during 12-week
treatment period; In limited instances to
allow for extenuating circumstances a fourweek extension was allowed (n=14)
- Encouragement to do skills practice on own
between sessions (daily practice encouraged)

© 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.

RESOLVE Study Description of Interventions Based on Template for Intervention Description and Replication (TIDieR)
Usual Care Plus

TAILORING/
PERSONALIZATION

Participants chose to pursue usual care
according to their needs and preferences.

painTRAINER
member (45.9%). Average number of
outreach calls completed for these N=356
was 1.8 (Range: 1-7) with an average length
of 4 minutes.
- Full 12 month access to PainTRAINER online
program
Participants chose when and which
skills/strategies to practice.

Health Coach

Participants chose to complete sessions by
phone or videoconferencing.

Participants chose to pursue usual care
according to their needs and preferences.

Participants chose when and which
skills/strategies to practice.
Participants chose to pursue usual care
according to their needs and preferences.

MODIFICATIONS

None

HOW WELL / FIDELITY
Planned
Not applicable

Added motivational interviewing-based language
to the onboarding and registration call script
used by research staff to improve engagement.
Change was implemented on 8/9/2021 after
~140 participants were enrolled in the study.
Not applicable; treatment is standardized
because the intervention is delivered via an
online program thus no ﬁdelity monitoring of
intervention administration is warranted.

Health coaches tailored individual participant
home practice goals to participants resources,
interests, and values. Pain education was tailored
to participants’ speciﬁc musculoskeletal pain
condition(s) and related comorbidities.
None

Sessions were audio or video-recorded with
participant permission. Health coaches
completed self-assessment of their ﬁdelity to
session content after each session.
- For first 12 months after reaching
proficiency, random sample of 5% of each
health coach’s completed sessions were
reviewed by clinical supervisors. Feedback
provided electronically with option for 1:1
discussion.

© 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.

RESOLVE Study Description of Interventions Based on Template for Intervention Description and Replication (TIDieR)
Usual Care Plus

Actual

Not applicable

painTRAINER

Not applicable

Health Coach
For months 13+, one randomly selected
session per coach every 6 months was
reviewed for ﬁdelity. Feedback provided
electronically with option for 1:1 discussion.
If reviewed session did not meet criteria of 100%
ﬁdelity in session content and 80% ﬁdelity on CBT
treatment principles, additional sessions
reviewed, and feedback provided until met
proﬁciency.
A total of N=299 sessions out of 4,626 completed
were reviewed for ﬁdelity (6.5%)
- Training to proﬁciency period: 193 sessions
reviewed
- First 12 months: 89 sessions out of 1,791
reviewed (5%)
- Month 13+ (1 session reviewed every 6
months per coach): 17 sessions out of 2,350
There were N=8 instances in which session
content did not meet 100% ﬁdelity and needed to
be redone (8/299=2.7%) and N=11 instances
where the ﬁdelity to CBT treatment principles did
not meet 80% (11/299=3.7%).
-

© 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.

RESOLVE Study Description of Interventions Based on Template for Intervention Description and Replication (TIDieR)
References
1.
Bandura A. Self-efficacy: The exercise of control. W.H. Freeman and Company.; 1997.
2.
Bandura A. Social foundations of thought and action: A social cognitive theory. Prentice-Hall; 1986:xiii, 617 p.
3.
Kennedy CM, Powell J, Payne TH, Ainsworth J, Boyd A, Buchan I. Active Assistance Technology for Health-Related Behavior Change: An
Interdisciplinary Review. Journal of Medical Internet Research. 2012;14(3):e80. doi:10.2196/jmir.1893
4.
Knowles MS, Holton EF, Swanson RA. The adult learner: The deﬁnitive classic in adult education and human resource development. 7th ed.
Elsevier; 2011.
5.
Mayer RE. Applying the science of learning: evidence-based principles for the design of multimedia instruction. American Psychologist. Nov
2008;63(8):760-9. doi:10.1037/0003-066X.63.8.760
6.
Michie S, Richardson M, Johnston M, et al. The behavior change technique taxonomy (v1) of 93 hierarchically clustered techniques: building an
international consensus for the reporting of behavior change interventions. Ann Behav Med. Aug 2013;46(1):81-95. doi:10.1007/s12160-013-9486-6
7.
Feinberg S, Feinberg R, Pohl M, Bokarius V, Darnall B. American Chronic Pain Association Resource Guide to Chronic Pain Management. An
Integrated Guide to Medical, Interventional, Behavioral, Pharmacologic and Rehabilitation Therapies: Rocklin, CA: American Chronic Pain Association,
Inc; 2018.
8.
Rini C, Porter LS, Somers TJ, et al. Automated Internet-based pain coping skills training to manage osteoarthritis pain: a randomized controlled
trial. Pain. May 2015;156(5):837-48. doi:10.1097/j.pain.0000000000000121

© 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.

