Research Original Investigation Effect of Behavioral Therapy and Supplements on MDD Among Overweight and Obese Adults

fectsizecomparablewiththatreportedin(meta-analytic)stud-
Discussion ies of psychological interventions for depression.28,35,40 In a
post hoc analysis, a more beneficial effect of food-related be-
This multicenter trial involving 1025 overweight individuals havioral activation therapy on depressive symptoms for those
with subsyndromal depressive symptoms showed no effect withhigherbaselinedepressionscoreswasobserved.Thissug-
from multinutrient supplements, food-related behavioral ac- gests that with sufficient dose and a higher-risk sample, food-
tivation therapy, or their combination on the 1-year cumula- related behavioral activation therapy might prevent depres-
tive onset of MDD. sion, although this requires further study. It would be relevant
To our knowledge, this is the first randomized trial evalu- to study which characteristics make participants more likely
atingtheeffectivenessof2nutritionalstrategiesandtheircom- toadheretotheintervention,toidentifypersonswhomayben-
bination for the prevention of depression in a high-risk group efit from it.
of overweight people. Despite the large sample size and selec- The strengths of this study are the randomized 2 × 2 fac-
tion of people with elevated depressive symptoms, the onset torialdesign,theinclusionofparticipantsfrom4countrieswith
of MDD was lower than expected, which reduced the statisti- different background characteristics and dietary patterns, the
cal power to detect a statistically significant effect. Compari- large sample size compared with other prevention studies of
sons of intervention effects with other trials are difficult due depression,35 the intervention and follow-up period of 1 year,
tomethodologicalandsampledifferences.Comparedwithpre- the efficient testing of multiple nutrients, the blinded design,
vious trials testing preventive psychological strategies for de- itsmeasurementofmultipleoutcomeassessments,andtheac-
pression that found significant effects,35 our sample had on av- tive adherence monitoring.
erage lower initial levels of depressive symptoms and lower
likelihood of having a history of MDD, making them less vul- Limitations
nerable to MDD onset. This study has several limitations. First, the onset of MDD
The adherence to both interventions was adequate, with was lower than expected, which resulted in lower power to
aboutthree-quartersfulfillingpredefinedadherencecriteriafor detect significant effects, if present. However, because pla-
theinterventions.Forfood-relatedbehavioralactivation,thein- cebo outperformed supplements for some secondary out-
dividual sessions in the first 6 months were well attended, but comes, it is unlikely that inclusion of an adequately powered
the group sessions in the subsequent 6 months were not. sample would favor supplements for the prevention of
This study showed that multinutrient supplements con- depression. Second, a considerable number of participants
tainingomega-3PUFAs,vitaminD,folicacid,andseleniumnei- (about a quarter) was lost to follow-up. Although this number
therreduceddepressivesymptoms,anxietysymptoms,norim- was balanced between intervention groups, attrition bias
proved health utility measures. In fact, they appeared to result cannot be ruled out. Third, those who received placebo were
in slightly poorer depressive and anxiety symptoms scores less likely to believe they were taking multinutrients, which
compared with placebo. Despite substantial evidence of ob- suggests that the blinding of participants was not optimal.
servational studies linking lower nutrient levels to higher de- Fourth, participants were not selected based on deficiencies
pressive symptoms, similar to our findings, a review of 9 RCTs in the specific nutrients provided. It is conceivable that defi-
found no support that vitamin D could prevent depression in cient individuals will be more likely to benefit from supple-
older adults.12 For omega-3 PUFAs, one RCT involving mild to mentation, but studies addressing this are scarce.12 Fifth, no
moderately depressed individuals—a population that is some- active control group for the food-related behavioral activa-
what comparable with our sample—also showed no favorable tion therapy component was present. Sixth, the predefined
effect of omega-3 PUFAs on depressive symptoms.36 No ef- follow-up time of this study was 1 year, which might have
fect of folic acid combined with vitamin B6 and B12 was found been too short to detect an effect.
on the onset of depression in older men37 and older women.38
Furthermore, Rayman et al39 found no effect of selenium on
mood in older adults. Overall, the studies available thus far,
Conclusions
includingourtrial,donotsupporttheuseofnutritionalsupple-
mentation in the prevention of depression.12 Among overweight or obese adults with subsyndromal de-
Food-related behavioral activation therapy had a signifi- pressive symptoms, multinutrient supplementation com-
cant effect on reduction in anxiety symptoms at 12 months but pared with placebo and food-related behavioral activation
not on any of the other secondary mental health outcomes. therapy compared with no therapy did not reduce episodes of
When accounting for a priori defined intervention adherence major depressive disorder during 1 year. These findings do not
(ie, attending ≥8 of 21 sessions), food-related behavioral acti- support the use of these interventions for prevention of ma-
vation therapy was related to lower MDD onset, with an ef- jor depressive disorder in this population.

ARTICLE INFORMATION research institute, GGZ inGeest Specialized Mental Amsterdam, Amsterdam, the Netherlands
Accepted for Publication: January 28, 2019. Health Care, Amsterdam, the Netherlands (Bot, (Brouwer, Cabout, Visser); Institut Universitari d’
Penninx, van Grootheest); Department of Health Investigació en Ciències de la Salut, Idisba, Rediapp,
Author Affiliations: Amsterdam UMC, Vrije Sciences, Faculty of Science and Amsterdam Public University of Balearic Islands, Palma de Mallorca,
Universiteit, Psychiatry, Amsterdam Public Health Health research institute, Vrije Universiteit Spain (Roca, Gili); Department of Psychiatry and

866 JAMA March 5, 2019 Volume 321, Number 9 (Reprinted) jama.com

© 2019 American Medical Association. All rights reserved.

Downloaded from jamanetwork.com by University of Arizona Health Sciences Library user on 07/30/2026
