Effect of Behavioral Therapy and Supplements on MDD Among Overweight and Obese Adults Original Investigation Research

ajor depressive disorder (MDD) is a common psychi-
atric disorder (lifetime prevalence, 17%),1 ranking as Key Points
the second leading contributor of years lived with
Question What is the effect of multinutrient supplementation and M
disability.2 Prevention may offer an important opportunity to food-related behavioral activation therapy on prevention of a new
reduce the global disease burden of MDD.3 episode of major depressive disorder among overweight or obese
One preventive strategy for MDD might be to modify diet. adults with subsyndromal depressive symptoms?
Prospective studies have found that better adherence to higher
Findings In this 2 × 2 factorial randomized clinical trial that
quality diets is associated with reduced future onset of de- included 1025 adults, there was no significant difference in
pressive symptoms.4 Food-related behaviors, like unhealth- episodes of major depressive disorder over 1 year of follow-up with
ful eating styles,5 have been cross-sectionally related to in- multinutrient supplementation vs placebo (54 [10.5%] vs 51
creased depressive symptoms. Recent randomized clinical [9.9%]) or with food-related behavioral activation therapy vs no
trials (RCTs) found that dietary improvement strategies re- therapy (48 [9.4%]) vs 57 [11.1%]).
duceddepressivesymptomsindepressedadultsrelativetocon- Meaning These findings do not support the use of multinutrient
trol conditions,6,7 but there remains a clear lack of RCTs test- supplementation or food-related behavioral activation therapy for
ing dietary strategies to prevent depression.8 prevention of major depressive disorder.
Similarly, observational studies have suggested that lower
levels of specific nutrients (eg, omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty
acids, folic acid, vitamin D, selenium) are related to higher lev- tionnaire (PHQ-9) scores of 5 or higher15 but having no cur-
els of depressive symptoms.9,10 Some—but not all—nutritional rent MDD episode in past 6 months (Mini International
supplement intervention studies have indicated that nutrient Neuropsychiatric Interview 5.0 [MINI 5.0]).16 (See eAppen-
supplementation may reduce depressive symptoms in those dix 1 in Supplement 3 for recruitment details and eligibility.)
with MDD.11 All eligible participants were invited to visit one of the study
To date, few experimental studies have directly evalu- sites for a baseline interview. The interview, physical mea-
ated the effect of changing diet, food-related behavior, or nu- surements, blood sampling were conducted by trained re-
trients on preventing MDD8,12 and none to our knowledge have search assistants or nurses. Furthermore, participants com-
specifically targeted overweight and obese individuals, who pleted self-report questionnaires. Follow-up assessments took
areaparticularlyrelevantpopulation,giventheirincreasedrisk place at 3, 6, and 12 months.
of MDD and the key role of diet in these conditions.13 There-
fore,theMooDFOODdepressionpreventiontrialexaminedthe Randomization
effectof2differentnutritionalstrategies(multinutrientsupple- At the end of the baseline interview, participants were ran-
mentation, food-related behavioral activation therapy) and domized with equal probability to (1) placebo supplements
theircombinationforpreventionofanewMDDepisodeinover- without therapy; (2) placebo supplements with therapy;
weight people with subsyndromal depressive symptoms. (3) multinutrient supplements without therapy; or (4) mul-
tinutrient supplements with therapy by a permuted block
randomization (block sizes ranging from 8-12; https://www.
sealedenvelope.com). Randomization was stratified by study
Methods
site and participants’ lifetime history of depression status
Study Design (Figure 1). After randomization, researchers dispensed
This study was a 2 × 2 factorial RCT performed between July supplements to participants according to unique randomiza-
30, 2015, and October 13, 2017, in 4 European countries tion codes. Participants, therapists, and researchers were
(Germany, Spain, United Kingdom, and the Netherlands). For blinded to supplement allocation. Participants of food-
full details of trial design and protocol see Roca et al14 and related behavioral activation intervention therapy were con-
Supplement 1. For the statistical analysis plan, see Supple- tacted directly by the therapist, ensuring that researchers
ment 2. Ethics approval was provided by the human research assessing follow-up outcomes remained blind to this inter-
ethicsboardsofthe4studysites.Allparticipantsprovidedwrit- vention status. Statistical analyses on the primary outcome
ten informed consent. This article reports on primary and sec- and the reported secondary outcomes in which participants
ondary mental health outcomes as assessed up to 12 months. were analyzed according to their randomization group were
carried out blinded for randomization.
Recruitment and Eligibility Criteria
Participants were recruited to participate in a study investi- Interventions
gatingnewstrategiestoimprovemoodandwell-beingthrough Multinutrient Supplements
changes in diet and lifestyle by the study sites (located in Patients received either multinutrient supplements (1412 mg
Leipzig, Germany; Palma de Mallorca, Spain; Exeter, United of eicosapentaenoic and docosahexaenoic omega-3 poly-
Kingdom; and Amsterdam, the Netherlands). Main eligibility unsaturated fatty acids [PUFAs]; ratio, 3:1), 30 μg of sele-
criteria were age between 18 and 75 years, body mass index nium, 400 μg of folic acid, and 20 μg of vitamin D3 coupled
(BMI, calculated as weight in kilograms divided by height in with 100 mg of calcium) or placebo, each were provided in
meters squared) between 25 and 40, having at least mild de- 2 pills per day, taken daily for 1 year (see eAppendix 2
pressive symptoms as operationalized by Patient Health Ques- in Supplement 3 for details).

jama.com (Reprinted) JAMA March 5, 2019 Volume 321, Number 9 859

© 2019 American Medical Association. All rights reserved.

Downloaded from jamanetwork.com by University of Arizona Health Sciences Library user on 07/30/2026
