PROTOCOL                                                                                           SUNRRISE
Length of hospital stay will be summarised using means and standard deviations, and compared between
groups using mixed effects linear regression models to obtain an adjusted mean difference and 95%
confidence interval. If data are skewed, then data will be summarised using medians and interquartile
ranges, and an unadjusted difference between medians will be reported. SF-12, EQ-5D-5L and the visual
analogue scale for pain at the site of the primary laparotomy are all continuous data outcomes and therefore
will also be summarised using means and standard deviations. The data at both day 7 and day 30 will be
compared between groups using mixed effects linear regression models to obtain an adjusted mean
difference and 95% confidence interval. Data for the EQ-5D-5L is collected at baseline and days 7, 14, 21
and 30, and so as a secondary analysis this outcome will also be analysed using a mixed effects repeated
measures model.


14.2.3. Planned Sub Group Analyses
Subgroup analyses will use the same variables as those in the minimisation algorithm (with the exception of
centre), the operative procedure and country. Subgroup analyses will be limited to the primary outcome. The
effects of these subgroups will be examined by including a treatment group by subgroup interaction
parameter in the regression model. The results of subgroup analyses will be treated with caution and will be
used for the purposes of hypothesis generation only.


14.2.4. Missing Data and Sensitivity Analyses
Every attempt will be made to collect full follow-up data on all study participants; it is thus anticipated that
missing data will be minimal. Participants with missing primary outcome data will not be included in the
primary analysis in the first instance. This presents a risk of bias, and sensitivity analyses will be undertaken
to assess the possible impact of the risk. Any sensitivity analyses will not, irrespective of their differences,
supplant the planned primary analyses. Full details will be included in the SAP.



14.3. Planned Interim Analysis
Interim analyses of major outcome measures and safety data will be conducted and provided in strict
confidence to the independent DMC (see section 16.5). Details of the agreed plan will be written in the DMC
charter and SAP.



14.4. Planned Final Analyses
The final analysis for the study will occur once all participants have completed the Day 30 assessment and
corresponding outcome data has been entered onto the study database and validated as being ready for
analysis.


         UK HEALTH ECONOMICS ANALYSIS
The health economic analysis will determine the costs and benefits of SUNPD versus the surgeon’s
preferred dressing. The economic evaluation will be conducted from the perspective of the NHS and
personal social services.


Healthcare resource utilisation will be collected for each patient alongside the trial through a patient diary
included as part of the CRF. Patients with an ongoing SSI at time of discharge will continue to complete the
patient diary until healing of the SSI. Items of resource use will be costed using national sources and tariffs
such as the Personal Social Services Research Unit and NHS reference cost databases.


Generic health-related quality of life data will be collected using the EQ-5D-5L instrument at baseline and
each follow-up assessment. Base-case analyses will be conducted using the crosswalk value sets for the


Trial name:   SUNRRISE        Protocol version number:   4.0   Version date:   16-Mar-2021       Page:   39 of 48
