A1C Measurement
Study Member Obtaining A1C Measurements
A1C measurements were obtained by trained and certified research staff. For the A1CNow+ test kit,
research staff were required to complete and successfully pass a pts Diagnostics training course and
receive a certificate. For the Afinion™ 2, research staff were required to successfully complete the
training provided by Johns Hopkins Medicine on the employee MyLearning platform.
Instruments Used for A1C Measurements
A1C measurements were obtained using FDA-cleared, CLIA-waived, and NGSP-certified point-of-care
devices, including the Afinion™ 2 Analyzer, Siemens DCA Vantage, and A1CNow+ test kit. These tests
required a fingerstick blood sample, with results available within 5 minutes. All A1C testing was
conducted by a trained research coordinator.
The A1CNow+ test kit was a portable device used primarily for home study visits (PTS Diagnostics).
Although FDA-approved and NGSP-certified, it exhibited a larger mean bias compared to laboratorybased measurements and other point-of-care devices (Afinion™ 2 Analyzer and Siemens DCA Vantage).
Additionally, A1CNow+ was more susceptible to interference from hemoglobinopathies (e.g., sickle cell
trait or disease) and rheumatoid factor.
To mitigate potential inaccuracies, a screening protocol was implemented for participants requesting
home study visits:
•

•
•
•

Participants with conditions known to interfere with the A1CNow+ test were excluded from
home testing and instead scheduled for in-clinic testing using more accurate devices (Afinion™ 2
Analyzer or Siemens DCA Vantage).
If an A1CNow+ test produced a quality control error message, the test was repeated with a
second sample.
A1CNow+ failure was defined as two consecutive quality control or error messages during the
same visit.
If an A1CNow+ result deviated significantly (≤ -0.9 or ≥ +0.8 points) from a prior A1C
measurement within the past three months (i.e., outside the 95% confidence interval for
A1CNow+ compared to venous sample A1C), an alternative A1C test was offered at the clinical
research unit or a Labcorp facility.

The following table summarizes the number of participants who underwent A1C testing using each device
at baseline and at the 12-month follow-up:
A1C Measurement Device/Method
Afinion™ 2 Analyzer
A1CNow+
Serum (Labcorp facility)

Baseline (n)
334
33
1

12-Month Follow-up (n)
282
30
0

Additionally, some participants transitioned between different A1C testing methods between baseline and
follow-up:
Participants with A1C measurements with discordant devices:
© 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI
training, and similar technologies.

