Summary of methods for supplementary figures and tables not included in main manuscript
Table/Figure
eFigure 1

Population
–

eFigure 2

–

eFigure 3

Randomized
Population

eFigure 4

Randomized
Population

eTable 1

Randomized
Population AI-DPP
group

eTable 2

Randomized
Population HumanDPP group

eTable 3

Randomized
Population

eTable 4

Randomized
Population, Per
protocol

Description of Method
Screenshots of Personalized Push Notifications and
Nutritional Support in Sweetch appintervention were
obtained directly from Sweetch Health Ltd.
Screenshots of Connected Health Tracking and
Educational Content in the Sweetch App were obtained
directly from Sweetch Health Ltd.
The forest plot presents age-adjusted risk differences
(aRD) (percentage points) with one-sided 95% CIs for the
primary and secondary outcomes of diabetes risk reduction
at 12 months. The reference line at -15 percentage points
represents the non-inferiority margin. The AI-DPP
intervention is considered non-inferior to Human-DPP if
the one-sided CI does not cross this threshold. Risk
difference adjusted for variables imbalanced at baseline
(age). Negative aRD values indicate a lower outcome
achievement frequency in the AI-DPP group compared to
the Human-DPP group.
The forest plot presents risk differences (percentage
points) with one-sided 95% CIs for the secondary analysis
(subgroup analysis by site, sex, age, baseline A1C, and
BMI category). The reference line at -15 percentage points
represents the non-inferiority margin. The AI-DPP
intervention is considered non-inferior to Human-DPP if
the one-sided CI does not cross this threshold. Negative
risk difference values indicate a lower outcome
achievement frequency in the AI-DPP group compared to
the Human-DPP group. No multiplicity adjustment was
applied as these analyses are exploratory and not intended
for formal hypothesis testing.
The Sweetch application underwent multiple updates
during the study. eTable 1a summarizes each version’s
release date, key features, and eTable 1b summarizes the
number (and percent) of AI-DPP participants who began
the program in that version.
Participants assigned to the Human-DPP group received
their DPP program via synchronous Zoom sessions. Each
participant was linked to one of four CDC-recognized DPP
sites based on study site affiliation. The table summarizes
each site’s name, location, CDC recognition status, and
number (and percent) of Human-DPP participants
assigned.
Baseline characteristics reported for full randomized
cohort using methods as described for Main Manuscript,
Table 1.
Proportions of participants meeting laboratory criteria for
DPP eligibility. DPP eligibility determined by: (1) Fasting
glucose 100–125 mg/dL within the past year, (2) Study

© 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI
training, and similar technologies.

