eTable 5

Randomized
Population

eTable 6

Randomized
Population

eTable 7

Randomized
Population

eTable 8

–

eTable 9

Randomized
Population

eTable 10

Randomized
Population

eTable 10b

Randomized
Population
Per protocol

eTable 11
eTable 12

Randomized
Population

eTable 13

Randomized
Population

A1C 5.7%–6.4% during baseline visit, (3) Clinic A1C
5.7%–6.4% within the past year. Definitions of Study A1C
and Clinic A1C are provided in the Methods section of the
main manuscript. Chi-squared test used to compare
differences in proportions and Wilcoxon rank-sum test
used to compare continuous measures by group.
Baseline characteristics reported by randomization site
using methods as described for the Main Manuscript,
Table 1.
Baseline Characteristics by Baseline A1C Status,
comparing A1C < 5.7% and 5.7% – 6.4%, using methods
as described for Main Manuscript, Table 1.
Baseline Characteristics by Trial Completion Status,
comparing study completers to study drop-outs, using
methods as described for Main Manuscript, Table 1.
Frequency, handling method, and rationale for handling
method of missing data was recorded.
In-window was defined as completing a 6-month visit
within 168–196 days from baseline and a 12-month visit
within 351–379 days from baseline. Days outside of
window was calculated as the days from the relevant study
window to the last day in that window. Mean days outside
of window were summarized for participants who were
outside of window by assigned group. Chi-squared test
was used to compare differences in proportions of
participants outside window. Wilcoxon rank-sum test used
to compare continuous measures by group.
Proportion of patients who received prohibited
antihyperglycemic, weight loss, or steroid medications by
assigned group. GLP-1 receptor agonists were classified as
antihyperglycemic agents for the purposes of
classification. Information displayed by study group and at
the participant level. Chi-squared test used for comparison
between study groups.
Percentage of participants on prohibited medications by
study group.
Baseline characteristics reported for the per protocol
cohort by assigned group using methods as described for
Main Manuscript, Table 1.
Participants who achieved the composite outcome were
further classified according to which individual component
outcomes they met (≥5% weight loss, ≥4% weight loss
plus ≥150 minutes/week of physical activity, or ≥0.2%
HbA1c reduction). Proportions were calculated as the
number of participants achieving each unique combination
of outcome components divided by the total number of
participants who met the composite outcome, separately
for each study arm and overall.
Participants within the Primary Analysis cohort who had a
diabetes-range A1C during the 6-month and/or 12-month

© 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI
training, and similar technologies.

