Trial enteral nutrition delivery audits
A total of eight trial enteral nutrition audits were conducted during the trial. These audits occurred at the following
timepoints: 1) mid cluster, i.e. 6 weeks after each cluster period commencement (four timepoints); 2) at cluster change
over, i.e. in the week following cluster change over (three timepoints) 3) at study completion, i.e., at one timepoint
within one week of study completion. Audit dates were randomly assigned during the audit week to sites, excluding
weekends, using an online randomizer - https://www.random.org/calendar-dates/. The time of the day in which the audit
took place was selected by sites for convenience, but the entire audit was instructed to be completed at once. For the
audit, sites visualized and recorded in the electronic case report form the trial formula hanging at the bedside. During
data analysis, the recorded formula hanging at the bedside was compared to the trial enteral nutrition the patient was
initially assigned to receive. These were done to identify patients who may be receiving the alternate trial enteral
nutrition or a non-trial formula. We also identified and counted patients who were in the ICU but were not receiving
enteral nutrition at time of the audit i.e. fasting or ceased clinical need for enteral nutrition.



Duration of invasive ventilation
Duration of invasive ventilation was considered as a lower bounded continuous response, rather than as a time-to-event
outcome as stated in the published statistical analysis plan. A tobit mixed effects model3 was used to compare the mean
duration of invasive ventilation between treatment groups and included covariate adjustment for period and delayed
start. ICU was included as a random effect and assumed to be normally distributed with mean zero and variance
component 𝜎𝜎𝐶𝐶2 . The treatment effect estimate from the tobit mixed effects model is presented as a difference in means
(95% CI).



Adverse events and serious adverse events
It is recognized that the patient population in the ICU experience aberrations in laboratory values, signs and symptoms
due to the severity of the underlying disease and the impact of standard treatments in the ICU. These do not necessarily
constitute adverse events or serious adverse events unless they are considered related to study treatment or, in the
principal investigator’s clinical judgement, are not recognized events consistent with the patient’s underlying critical
illness and/or chronic diseases and expected clinical course. Accordingly, the reporting of adverse events (AEs) was
restricted to events that were considered related to study treatment (possibly, probably or definitely). AEs were defined
as any untoward medical occurrence in a patient or clinical investigation subject administered an investigational
intervention and were collected from commencement of trial enteral formula until 48 hours post cessation of trial enteral
formula. The patient was followed until the event was resolved or explained. Frequency of follow-up was left to the
discretion of the site principal investigator.


The baseline mortality of intensive care patients is high due to the illness that has necessitated admission. ICU patients
will frequently develop life-threatening organ failure(s) unrelated to study interventions and despite optimal
management. Therefore, consistent with ICU international best practice and, as outlined above, deaths that were part of
the natural history of the primary disease process or expected complications of critical illness were not reported as

© 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and
similar technologies.
