eAppendix B: Method Details for the Multiple Imputation Approach

We evaluated the sensitivity of our primary analysis findings to the “missing = vaping” assumption using the multiple imputation (MI)
approach of Hedeker et al.3 which has been further evaluated and refined by others.4-6 This approach is driven by the observation that in
any 2x2 table that stratifies missing outcomes (yes/no) by vaping status at follow-up (yes/no), the odds of vaping among non-respondents
can be imputed by first estimating the odds of vaping among respondents and then multiplying them by the odds ratio capturing the
association between missingness and vaping (OR.miss). The stronger the odds ratio, the more likely that the missing outcomes represent
vaping. Conversely, the weaker the odds ratio, the more likely that the missing data represent abstinence. Two important cases occur
when (a) OR.miss=1, i.e., there is no association between missingness and vaping outcome, and (b) OR.miss=+∞, in which case missing
outcomes are certain to represent vaping. The first case corresponds to a Missing-at-Random (MAR) scenario, as defined by Little and
Rubin7. Of note, all OR.miss values other than 1 represent a non-ignorable missingness mechanism (NMAR), whose validity cannot
actually be tested from the available data. For that reason, it is common to vary OR.miss over a large range (symmetric around 1 in the
logarithmic scale) and to evaluate the sensitivity of the findings to the model assumptions.

To the extent that the odds of vaping among respondents are themselves a random variable subject to estimation uncertainty, multiple
imputation is needed to fully propagate this uncertainty to the standard errors of the parameters of interest. In building an imputation
model, it is worth noting that missingness is allowed to depend on observed data even under a MAR assumption. It is typical to
incorporate baseline predictors of missingness in the imputation model, as they typically have little missing data of their own. Following
Hedeker3 and Smolkowski4, we chose to enrich our imputation model by allowing the odds of abstinence among observed participants
to vary by a dichotomous indicator of nicotine dependence at baseline (a median split on E-cigarette Dependence Scale as the strongest
of our nicotine dependence measures). We also evaluated the strength of the (untestable) model assumptions by noting the extent to
which it reduces the fraction of missing information (FMI) in the parameter of interest: the odds ratio capturing the association between
the text messaging intervention and vaping outcome (OR.vape). Setting all missing outcomes to either vaping (OR.miss=+∞) or
abstinence (OR.miss=-∞) reduces the FMI to exactly zero. Therefore, we would expect finite values of OR.miss to reduce the FMI
towards zero as they depart from the MAR value (OR.miss=1) on either direction. The FMI is typically unknown but can be estimated
as the ratio of the between-imputation variance to the total variance of the parameter of interest, as the between-imputation variance is
zero in a scenario with no missing data.8 To improve the accuracy of the FMI estimate, we used M=10,000 imputations for each value
of OR.miss in our sensitivity analyses.

The MI findings are shown in eTable 3 as we varied OR.miss in a fashion symmetric around 1 in the logarithmic scale in a manner non-
differential across study arms. As OR.miss increased from 1/100 to 100, the abstinence rates in the control (P0) and intervention (P1)
arms both decreased towards their OR.miss=+∞ estimates, with the difference shrinking monotonically from P1-P0 = 14.16% to 9.92%,
indicating a smaller treatment effect as more non-respondents were classified as vapers. Similarly, the use of an odds ratio scale showed
treatment effects decreasing from OR=1.83 towards the estimate of OR.miss=+∞ of 1.57. In contrast, using relative risk instead of risk
difference as our preferred metric, increases in OR.miss led to an increase in the estimate of the treatment effect from RR=1.26 to their
OR.miss=+∞ limit of 1.35. This is because the OR tends to overestimate the RR at high abstinence rates, with the two effect size
estimates converging towards each other as abstinence rates drop towards their OR.miss=+∞ values. Despite these differences, all 3
metrics resulted in positive and very highly significant estimates of the treatment effect. For robustness reasons, we chose to highlight
the RR finding in the abstract, as it varied over a narrower range than the OR (RR=1.26-1.35 vs. OR=1.57-1.84). Regarding the FMI
estimates, we note that they approach zero at both ends of the OR.miss range (1/100, 100), indicating that more extreme values of
OR.miss need not be explored. Indeed, estimates of the treatment effect at OR.miss=100 are indistinguishable from the OR.miss=+∞
estimates.




© 2024 American Medical Association. All rights reserved.
