                                       D. Research Design and Methods

1. Design
     This is a randomized, double-blind placebo-controlled study to test whether calcium (1200 mg/d) plus
vitamin D (2000 IU/d) reduces the incidence of cancer in a population-based sample of women 60+ years of
age. We will randomly sample the population of healthy, independent living women 60+ years in nine counties.
We will randomly assign 2300 women to one of two groups: Group 1 will receive calcium (1200 mg/d) and
vitamin D (2000 IU/d) and Group 2 will be given calcium and vitamin D placebos. Each participant will be
followed for four years.
     After all participants have completed four years of follow up, we will perform a nested-case control study to
determine the association of serum 25OHD collected at randomization and at the end of year one of study with
risk of cancer over four years. For each cancer case there will be two controls matched for age and race.
        Table 4 on the next page indicates our goals for recruitment and retention of participants over the course
of the study. Each project year is divided into quarters. The visit number is indicated with a “V”. The projected
number of participants to be enrolled in a given quarter is indicated under V1, and that row shows the projected
attrition for that group of participants over the remainder of the study. The total number of visits, as well as the
subtotals by year and by quarter are provided at the bottom of the table.
      Table 4


Timeline (recruitment over first 12 months)

Project years               Year 1                              Year 2                      Year 3                      Year 4                          Year 5
      Project                                    10-    13-    16-    19-    22-    25-    28-    31-    34-    37-    40-      43-     46-    49-     52-    55-
     months      1-3      4-6            7-9     12     15     18     21     24     27     30     33     36     39     42       45      48     51      54     57    58-60


Visit number     V1                     V2             V3            V4            V5            V6            V7              V8              V9
    Subjects     383                    377            370           364           357           351           345             339             333

Visit number             V1                     V2            V3            V4            V5            V6            V7               V8             V9
    Subjects             767                    753           740           728           715           703           690              679            667

Visit number                            V1             V2            V3            V4            V5            V6              V7              V8             V9
    Subjects                            767            753           740           728           715           703             690             679            667

Visit number                                    V1            V2            V3            V4            V5            V6               V7             V8             V9
    Subjects                                    383           377           370           364           357           351              345            339            333
    Visits by
     quarter     383     767            1143    1137   1124   1117   1104   1098   1085   1079   1066   1060   1048   1042     1030   1024    1012    1006    667    333
Visits by year                                  3430                        4443                        4290                          4143                          3018

                       Total entered            2300                                                                         GRAND TOTAL VISITS (all years)         19324
                       Total finished           2000
                           Total lost            300
                        Lost as % of
                             entered           13.0%
2. Sample
a. Participants
     Study participants will include a random sample of women at least 60 years of age who are in good general
health, are at least 4 years past last menses, and are living independently in a nine-county rural area of
Nebraska. They must be able to travel to the Fremont Area Medical Center (FAMC) for study visits. Exclusion
criteria include: 1. history of cancer except for superficial basal or squamous cell carcinoma of the skin or
other malignancies treated curatively more than 10 years ago; 2. history of chronic kidney disease; 3.
participation on the previous population-based calcium and vitamin D study.
b. Sample Size and Power
     Primary Hypothesis
     Our primary hypothesis is: Increasing serum 25OHD from prevailing levels will significantly decrease
incidence of all types of cancer combined in a population sample of healthy postmenopausal women. The
State of Nebraska age-specific cancer incidence rates (excluding non-melanoma skin cancers) for women
aged 60-69 is 1.2%/yr; for women aged 70-79, 1.7%/yr, and for women 70+, 1.8%/yr.97The overall annual
cancer incidence rate in our previous (pilot) study cohort was 2%/y in the control group, 0.5%/y in the
calcium/vitamin D treatment group, and 1.2%/y overall. These observed values are consistent with population
level rates, indicating that cancer rates in our pilot study were about what should have been expected. In our
pilot study, with a substantially smaller sample, we had a post hoc sample power of about 66% to find an
unadjusted risk ratio of 0.4 (the actually observed value).
     Since the effect of vitamin D in the first year would be expected to be slight, power was estimated using
several scenarios involving different sample sizes, effect sizes, and incidence rates. In doing so we have
assumed: 1) that the hazard rate ratio would change from 1.0 during the first six months of observation, to the
specified effect size by the third 6-month period, with the second 6-month period at an intermediate rate (as we
had observed in the pilot study); and 2) a rate of loss of subjects from study of 1.5%/period (also about what
occurred in our pilot study). Calculations were performed using the Survival Analysis module of
SamplePower™ Release 2.0 (SPSS, Chicago). 98-101This program uses the Arcsin method described at
http://www.uoregon.edu/~robinh/arcsin.txt.
     For base cancer rates of 2.0, 1.5, and 1.0%/y, and an enrolled sample size of 2,300, power is as follows:
     Judging from official Nebraska statistics, the
                                                               Table 5               Base Cancer Rate (y–1)
rate is not likely to be as low as 1.0%, and would
more likely be 1.5% or greater, depending upon            Effect Size (RR)         2%        1.5%         1.0%
the final age distribution of the sample.
                                                                 0.6              62%        50%          36%
     As noted, the unadjusted effect size in our
pilot data was 0.4. If approximately the same                    0.5              82%        71%          54%
reduction occurs again, as the Table 5 shows, we
would have a power of 95% at a base cancer rate                  0.4              95%        87%          72%
of 2%/y, 87% at a base cancer rate of 1.5%/y,                    0.25             100%       98%          92%
and 72% at a base rate as low as 1.0%/y. By
contrast, the adjusted effect size (RR) in our pilot data was ~0.25, and if the approximately the same reduction
obtains in this replication study, even at a base rate as low as 1.0%/y, we would have ample power using two
samples of 1150 each. Hence, balancing the various tradeoffs, such a sample size should provide sufficient
power to find the reduced cancer incidence noted in our pilot data. Based on 13% attrition in our pilot study, we
will enroll 2300 participants to end with a sample of at least 1000 per treatment group.
     Secondary Hypothesis:
     Our first secondary hypothesis is: Increasing serum 25OHD from prevailing levels will significantly
decrease incidence of specific cancers:
breast, lung, colon and myeloma, leukemia,          Table 6
lymphoma. We analyzed subgroups with                                                         CI           Power
                                                     Cancer Site      P        RR
specific types of cancer in our original cohort                                        Lower     Upper    α=0.10
limiting the analysis to those free of cancer
after one year of study. In comparison to           Breast          0.062     0.216    0.043     1.079     89%
placebo, the relative risk (RR) of developing       Lung            0.188     0.218    0.023     2.107     81%
breast cancer for the Ca+D group was 0.22           Lymphoma,
(C.I.: 0.043 to 1.079, P = 0.062) Neither of the     Leukemia,      0.367     0.437    0.073     2.634     33%
                                                   Myeloma
other subgroups, lung or lymphoma, leukemia, myeloma, demonstrated a statistically significant reduction of
risk with vitamin D. Lung cancer came the closest to having a significant effect, RR = 0.22, C.I.: 0.023 to 2.107,
P = 0.188. A relative risk after the first year cannot be computed for colon because there one only one case. In
Table 6 we show our estimates of power to find significant differences in cancer risk between the two treatment
groups in the proposed study with a sample size of 1000 per group.
c. Recruitment of Participants
     Midwest Survey and Research (MSR) will conduct the major portion of the recruitment for the proposed
study. MSR is a nationally recognized market research firm that successfully completed our recruitment of
1180 women in our previous population-based study. MSR has developed the plan (See Appendix) for
randomly sampling the population of independently living postmenopausal women in a nine-county rural area
of Nebraska. The MSR Group will pull every listed household in the 9 county sample area. There are an
estimated 51,000 households in the sample area. To save cost, and because the sample area has a very high
listed phone number ratio, random digit dialing (RDD) will not be utilized. After every listed household is
pulled, the list will be completely randomized.
     Once the list is randomized, MSR will use replicates. A replicate is a sample within a sample. It is randomly
drawn from the original list. Replicates are used to control fielding to ensure that the calling effort has been
consistent across the entire geography of samples. MSR will pull replicates in increments of 1000. Each one
of those 1000 numbers will be attempted up to five times before being discarded. All 1000 numbers must be
used up before the next replicate is selected. Any number that is consistently a no-answer or an answering
machine, will be isolated and attempted several months later. MSR will continue to pull replicates in increments
of 1000 from the original base of all listed households until the study has been completed. RDD will not be
done because comparison of listed numbers with census data indicates that more the 95% of the households
have listed numbers. Even though many in this population have cell phones, they maintain their landlines.
Thus, our population will be almost completely included in the random sample. Furthermore, random digit
dialing would be very expensive since estimates are that MSR would make 30 calls to get a hold of one real
household number. Many of these rural prefixes include only about 300 numbers compared to Omaha in which
one prefix includes 5000-6000 numbers. Thus many of the generated numbers would be non-existent. Thus
RDD would incur much cost for little benefit.
     All telephone interviewing will be conducted by professionally trained MSR interviewers. An initial
telephone screen will eliminate most of the candidates who fail to meet the entry criteria. MSR will track the
number of persons who fail the entry criteria, the number who meet criteria but chose not to participate, and
the reasons given for refusal. Those who pass this screen and agree to participate will be will be contacted by
the project staff to set up an appointment for further screening, informed consent and baseline measurements.
     In order to develop community awareness of our study and allay any potential suspicion about the phone
call from MSR, we will send letters to physicians in the nine county study area informing them of the study.
Thus, they will be alerted lest their patients ask their advice about joining the study. We will also work with
Creighton and the FAMC, the study site, to develop a press release in the study geographical area prior to
commencement of study recruitment. Our study staff will call back all interested MSR-screened parties within
72 hours of obtaining their names to give them a brief explanation of the study and schedule a screening visit.

3. Study Site
    We will set up a study site at the Fremont Area Medical Center (FAMC) in Fremont NE, which is in the
central part of the nine-county rural area we are sampling. We find that rural women in NE are reluctant to
travel to Omaha to participate in research studies. We conducted our pilot study at FAMC and had
exceptionally good adherence. Participants rarely missed visits and overall attrition was very low. We have
approval from the CEO of FAMC to conduct the study there if funding is awarded. (See letter of support.)

4. Assessments
a. Cancer Ascertainment
    During each semiannual study visit, participants will be asked whether they were diagnosed with cancer
since the last study visit and the name of the physician who provided care for her. The study participant will
then sign a release of information form that allows the physician/hospital who provided the treatment for the
cancer to provide us with the medical records report of the cancer as well as the specific ICD-9 cancer code.
We will arrange for central adjudication of the pathology. On the HIPPA form that subjects sign along with
consent at the beginning of the study, we will ask the subjects to give approval to send any cancer pathology
slides to the adjudicating pathologist. Our method is intended to determine the number of true positives that
agree with the study participants’ reporting of cancers. We are also able to determine the number of false
positives.
     We will also determine the number of false negatives, i.e., those who were diagnosed with cancer but did
not report it during an annual visit. To determine this, we will send a list of each physician’s study participants
to him/her and ask each physician to verify the fact that each of his/her patients was not diagnosed with
cancer during the period of study. We will obtain a release of information from each study participant to obtain
this information from her personal physician. We will randomly sample 10 percent of those not reporting cancer
diagnoses and query their physicians regarding any cancer diagnosis/treatment during the study period.
     In addition, and if necessary, to the above-mentioned procedures for securing cancer incidence data, we
will use a standard epidemiologic procedure to obtain otherwise missing information, i.e., to contact designated
“next of kin”. Relatives’ names are obtained at study initiation, and study participants are told that next of kin
will be contacted only if the study participant is not available, at the end of the study. We will use this procedure
for those study subjects who may not complete the study. We contact the next-of-kin to verify cancer
occurrence and obtain permission to contact the personal physician. We would request from the physician the
medical report as well as the specific ICD-9 code of the cancer.
b. Laboratory Tests
25OHD
     We will analyze serum 25OHD in each participant annually as it is the best biomarker of vitamin D status
and a predictor variable we would expect to incorporate into our analyses at end of study (as we did for the
pilot study). We also will use it to assure that the treatment group is achieving an increased vitamin D level and
to assess the vitamin D status of the placebo group. We will use values obtained at baseline and at the end of
year one of study in a nested case control study in which we determine the association of serum 25OHD with
incidence of cancer. 25OHD will be measured by radioimmunoassay after extraction using the IDS kit
(Nichols/Quest Diagnostics, San Clemente, CA). Our laboratory participates in the DEQAS quality assurance
system for 25OHD assays, and over the course of the study our findings on test samples were regularly close
to the international mean. Our laboratory technologist will be the only person unblinded to the serum 25OHD
levels. Dr. Recker will be unblinded only to values out of the clinical reference range, which he will evaluate. In
our previous study, out-of-range values were rare.
1,25OHD2
        Since analyzing serum 1,25OHD2 may not yield helpful information and is expensive , we will collect
samples at each annual visit and store them. If our study findings show that serum 1,25OHD2 would be of
interest, we will seek funding to pay for the analyses. The rationale for saying that it may not yield helpful
information is as follows: The active form of vitamin D is 1,25OHD2. However, it is hypothesized that many
tissues and cells, including those in the breast, colon, and prostate that are common cancer sites, can make
their own 1,25OHD2 (autocrine function). This 1,25OHD2 is capable of regulating cellular processes that help to
maintain cellular growth and prevent malignancy.29;102 Amounts of this locally produced 1,25OHD2 are not
measurable in the serum. Serum levels of 1,25OHD2 are not sufficient to provide intracellular concentrations
needed for optimal autocrine function in the specific epithelial tissues.
Safety lab
     We will analyze serum calcium and creatinine annually to monitor for hypercalcemia and changes in renal
function.
Blood Storage
     We will keep duplicate blood samples for all subjects to be used as blinded quality control samples for the
vitamin D assays or other assays. We will also collect and store 30 cc of blood from every participant to test for
genetic markers should the intervention be found effective in decreasing the incidence of cancer. Blood will be
stored in a -70 freezer.
c. Medical and Social history
     At baseline we will obtain a thorough medical and social history. We will ascertain the time interval since
the last mammogram and most recent screening exams (fecal occult blood, sigmoidoscopy, barium enema,
colonoscopy, or virtual colonoscopy) for colon and rectal cancer, Pap smear, endometrial biopsy, and full skin
examination for cancer. We will ascertain premalignant lesions that have been identified and removed. We will
include that information in stratifications and multivariate analyses, allowing us to adjust for time since last
screening test. If needed, we can examine the effect in women who have been screened recently. We will also
ascertain a full history of use of replacement hormones by each woman. The history will also provide other
covariates for the analysis, such as family history of cancer, personal history of illness, medication use, etc. We
will update this information at semiannual study visits. We will thoroughly assess medication and supplement
use in the subjects at baseline and during the study. We will query the subjects at 6-month visits and ascertain
start and stop dates as well as dosage. We record the name of the medication/supplement and code it using
the American Hospital Formulary Service pharmacologic-therapeutic classification system.
     As we did in our previous study, we will ascertain all new diagnoses during the study and collect related
clinical information. We will designate as specific secondary chronic disease endpoints new diagnosis of the
following: hypertension 1, cardiovascular disease 1, osteoarthritis 2, colonic adenomas3 and diabetes4;5. We will
obtain medical records to confirm new diagnoses. We will also ask subjects about acute viral symptoms, such
as upper respiratory diseases and influenza.6 Dr. Recker will serve as our adjudicator to designate those
diagnoses that will be acceptable as incident chronic diseases or acute viral diseases. He will be blinded to
treatment assignment.
d. Height and weight
     At baseline and annually we will measure height and weight. These variables, plus calculated body mass
index (BMI), will be used as covariates in the analysis. Weight change will also be monitored.
e. Dietary intake (FFQ).
     We will administer the Block 2005 Food Frequency Questionnaire (Block Dietary Data Systems, Berkeley
CA). The FFQ will enable us to estimate intake of all nutrients in this cohort so that we can use nutrient
estimates as covariates in the analyses. This full-length (approximately 110 food item) questionnaire was
designed to estimate usual and customary intake of a wide array of nutrients and food groups.(See Appendix.)
It takes 30-40 minutes to complete and is intended for either self- or interviewer-administration. Both the food
list for this questionnaire and nutrient database for its analysis were developed from more recent data than
used for the Block '98 FFQ. The food list was developed from NHANES 1999-2002 dietary recall data; the
nutrient database was developed from the USDA Food and Nutrient Database for Dietary Studies (FNDDS),
version 1.0. A series of "adjustment" questions provide greater accuracy in assessing fat and carbohydrate
intake. Individual portion size is asked for each food, and pictures are provided to enhance accuracy of
quantification. We will use the booklet rather than the on-line version due to the booklet being much less
expensive. Block Dietary Data Systems (Berkeley CA) will analyze the data and provide us with reports.
f. Physical activity
     We will measure physical activity at baseline and at the final visit to use as a covariate in the analysis,
since it has been shown to have an inverse association with cancer. 103;104 We will use the Short Last 7 Days
Self-Administered version of the International Physical Activity Questionnaire (IPAQ).105 (See Appendix.) The
tool was developed to obtain internationally comparable data health-related physical activity in adults. It has
undergone extensive reliability and validity testing. Test-test reliability indicated a Spearman correlation
coefficient of 0.88 in the U.S.105 Typical correlations for criterion validity had a median value of 0. 30. The form
includes seven questions and is easy to administer. Thus, it is appropriate for the large number of subjects in
the proposed study.
g. Adherence with supplementation/placebo
     We will determine adherence by weighing each bottle of tablets before distributing the bottle and after it is
returned by the participant at each study visit. We will initially determine the weight of each pill: calcium,
vitamin D3, placebo calcium and placebo D3. To do this, we weigh the empty bottle and then the full bottle.
Then we subtract the weight of the empty bottle from the weight of the full bottle and divide the difference by
the number of tablets in the bottle. We have used this method in several studies and find it to be more accurate
and more time efficient compared to pill counts for large studies.
     We provide our subjects with much support to promote adherence. We encourage them to tell us difficulties
they encounter with the supplements so that we can advise them about how to overcome any obstacles. We
consistently have excellent adherence, as noted earlier for our first study. We schedule study visits every 6
months to promote adherence.
h. Falls
          We will also assess for falls with the fall assessment tool that we used in our previous study. 7 We will
interview participants at each visit about falls experienced over the last six months. Participants will be asked
to keep a falls diary noting the date of the fall. They will also be asked to note whether the fall was indoors or
outdoors and whether it resulted from a slip, trip, an external force (such as a dog), an intrinsic reason (such as
dizziness) or no identifiable reason.
5. Intervention
     We will randomly assign 2300 women to one of two groups: Group 1 will receive calcium (1200 mg/d) and
vitamin D3 (2000 IU/d), and Group 2 will be given calcium and vitamin D placebos. Each participant will be
followed for four years. Calcium will be in the form of calcium carbonate 600 mg caplets or identical placebo,
and each subject will be given two caplets/d, one with breakfast and the other with the evening meal.
Recommended levels of calcium intake were revisited by the RDI Committee and set as 1,200 g/day16, the
level of supplementation that we are including in the proposed study. Vitamin D3 will be made by Tishcon Corp
(Westbury, NY) supplied such that each capsule will have at least 2000 IU. Each subject will receive one
capsule/d or identical placebo. We will use each batch of capsules within one year. We will analyze a sample
of each lot of vitamin D3 when we receive it and at the end of each year to assure potency. We used this
product in our pilot study and found that capsules retained potency for more than one year. Vitamin D and
calcium placebos will be identical to the active supplements and will contain the same excipients as the active.
     Participants will be informed that they may be assigned to placebo calcium and vitamin D. Because of the
well-established need for calcium for optimal skeletal health, participants will be told that they may take their
own calcium supplementation in addition to the study pills. However, to avoid risks of excessive calcium intake,
participants will be advised that they should limit their outside calcium supplementation to 500-600 mg/day.
This combined with their dietary intake of calcium will meet the current recommendations for health.
Participants will also be allowed to take their own vitamin D, but we will ask them to limit that to no more than
400 IU/day if they are < 70 years of age and to more than 600 IU/day if they are ≥ 70, which are the currently
recommended intake levels.
a. Randomization
     We will need 2000 study participants to achieve more than 80% power and, since we expect 13% drop-out
rate through the whole study (based on our pilot study), the final total sample size comes to 2300. The planned
2300 study participants will be randomized at their recruitment to one of the two treatment groups (Placebo or
Vitamin D/Calcium). We will use block randomization, with block of length 2. That is, patients will be divided
into pairs, according to their arrival order, and will be randomized within their respective pair. The study is
double-blinded, i.e. neither the study participants nor the PI and her team will know the exact treatment, except
for the study statistician.
b. Procedure
        The population of healthy independently living postmenopausal women 60+ years of age living in a nine-
county area of NE will be sampled by MSR. Interviewers at MSR will contact women from the sample and
conduct an initial screening over the telephone. The names and contact information of women who pass the
initial screen will be forwarded to the Creighton study staff, who will then conduct a second telephone screen.
Eligible candidates will be scheduled for a baseline visit. The study will be explained and consent will be
obtained. At the baseline visit, the following procedures will be performed: assessment of medical and social
history; measurement of height and weight; completion of dietary and physical activity questionnaires; and
phlebotomy. The subjects will be enrolled, randomized to treatment group, and provided calcium and vitamin
D3 supplements/placebo. Study visits will be scheduled semi-annually. At each visit, the following will be
assessed: recent medical and social history, including adverse events; ascertainment of cancer diagnoses;
and adherence to supplement/placebo. Study supplements will be replaced at each visit. Annually, phlebotomy
will also be done to obtain samples for 25OHD, 1,25D, calcium and creatinine. Study visits will take 30 to 45
minutes.
        Adverse will be evaluated by Drs. Lappe and Recker, and serious adverse events and unexpected
events will be reported to the Creighton IRB and the Data Safety and Monitoring Board. Participants will be
referred for follow up if appropriate. An intense effort will be made to maintain every participant on study until
the project is completed. We will attempt to maintain contact with any participant who does drop from study
and to ascertain diagnosis of cancer at the time they would have completed the study.

6. Data Analyses
    The statistical analysis will focus on testing our
    Primary Hypothesis: Increasing serum 25OHD from prevailing (control) levels will result in a statistically
significant decrease in the incidence of diagnosis of all types of cancer combined in a population sample of
healthy postmenopausal women by the end of the four-year follow-up period.
     Since we expect some dropouts in the course of the study, an appropriate main endpoint of interest will be
of time-to-event type, where the event is cancer diagnosis for the first time and the time to diagnosis is
measured from each subject’s own date of entry. All subjects who do not experience the event will be right
censored at either the end of the study (if they were followed up through the whole study) or at the time point
when they were lost to follow up (e.g. because of death from other causes, moving out of the area, unable to
continue on study). Censored observations cannot be ignored in the analyses. The method of analysis must
take the censoring into account and correctly use the censored observations as well as the uncensored
observations. Therefore, our main approach to statistical modeling of the data will be survival analysis. 106 Its
purpose will be to model the underlying distribution of time to diagnosis and to assess the dependence of the
failure time variable on the independent variables, i.e. the treatment and other covariates. (We will use the
expressions time-to-diagnosis and survival time interchangeably.)
     While the effect of treatment (increase in serum 25OHD levels vs. otherwise) will be of principal interest,
covariates that are related to carcinogenesis and cancer diagnosis (e.g., race, dietary intake of vitamin D,
calcium, retinol, soy products, etc; age; smoking; BMI, physical activity, hormone replacement therapy, parity,
family history of cancer) will be also included and measured at study outset. Cox regression 107 is a well-
established general approach whose extensions will serve our purposes very well. The regression coefficient in
Cox regression is interpreted as the change of the log hazard ratio resulting in the increase of one unit in the
covariate. For each particular subject, some covariates will stay fixed through the study while others may
change through it (e.g. switching treatment groups for some patients who are on and off medication) which will
require the use of Cox regression with time-dependent covariates.
     In addition to Cox regression, which is of the relative risk type, we will use the Accelerated Failure Time
(AFT) model, 108 which postulates direct relationship between survival time and covariates. The latter has
easier interpretation, and the results from it will be used to cross-check the ones from Cox regression. The AFT
model is a parametric model, and the distribution of its error term of the model needs to be determined for
appropriate interpretation of the coefficients of the regression part of the AFT model. Using goodness-of-fit
procedures and graphical methods to evaluate the model fit, the best distribution will be selected from the
standard ones for PROC LIFEREG in the statistical package SAS 9.1 (see comments below). Once the
parameters of the distribution are known, hypothesis testing will proceed as implemented in PROC LIFEREG
for the AFT model. All P values will be based on two-sided tests and considered significant if less than 0.05.
The statistical package SAS 9.1 (SAS Inst, Inc, Cary, NC) will be used in all analyses. There are three SAS
procedures that implement both basic and sophisticated models for analyzing survival data: LIFEREG,
LIFETEST and PHREG. PROC LIFEREG is a parametric regression procedure for modeling the distribution of
survival time with a set of covariates (some of which may be categorical), and will be used to implement the
AFT model. PROC LIFETEST is a nonparametric procedure for estimating the survivor function (Kaplan-Meier
estimator 109 or the life-table method), comparing the underlying survival curves of two or more groups, and
testing the association of survival time with other variables. PROC PHREG is a semi-parametric procedure that
will be used to fit the Cox regression model, with or without varying covariates.
     Cigarette smoking status will be categorized as never, former, or current smokers and updated annually. A
more detailed categorization will be based on the number of cigarettes smoked per day among current
smokers (0, 1-14, 15-34 and 35+ cigarettes per day), as has been done in other cohort studies27. Pack years
will also be calculated.
     In addition to the survival analysis approach, we will perform logistic regression analysis of the event
cancer diagnosis (Yes vs No) on treatment, while adjusting for covariates, similar to the survival analysis. To
this end, we will compute person-time of follow-up for each subject from date of study entry to the date of
cancer diagnosis, death from any cause, or the end of follow-up, whichever comes first. Incidence rates of
cancer will be obtained by dividing the number of incident cases by the number of person-years in each
category of exposure. That is, our research unit will be person-year rather than person only. In particular, we
will obtain maximum likelihood estimate of the relative risk (RR) for each upper exposure category by dividing
the incidence rate in that category by the rate in the lowest category, through a generalized linear model as
implemented in the SAS procedure GENMOD.
     We do not plan an interim analysis, but we have provision for it in the event the DSMB should want it. (See
below.)
     Interim Analysis. Stopping the study prematurely has a serious potential to bias the estimates of the
statistical models parameters (Risk Ratio, etc) and influence their credibility. Interim analysis (of treatment
comparison for efficacy and safety) may result in breaking the blind and premature stoppage of the study. At
the very least, it will affect the probability of Type I error and may decrease the statistical power of the study.
Nevertheless, we plan to conduct interim analysis at the middle of the study (i.e. at the end of the 2nd year of
treatment for all subjects), and the Data Safety and Monitoring Board (DSMB) will be informed accordingly.
The interim analysis will be confidentially performed by the study statistician, Dr Haynatzki, and will be reported
at a closed session of the DSMB. (No unplanned interim analyses will be conducted.) The early-stopping
rule/algorithm based on calculating an alpha-spending function is provided below. We have applied the widely
accepted approach that makes use of an alpha-spending function α’(t) that is defined for t=0, 0.5, 1.0 110. By
definition, α’(0)=0 and α’(1)=0.05, and we further specify α’(0.5)=0.0025. That is, when the interim analysis is
conducted at time t=0.5, we will use the above alpha-spending function α’(t) to compare Control vs. Treatment.
If this comparison results in a significant difference at level α’, we will report this to the DSMB.
     Nested case control study. Incident cancer cases that are newly identified during years 2, 3 and 4 will be
included in this study. We expect a total of 75 incident cancer cases, according to percentages from our pilot
study. These 25 cases per year are expected to include some 5 (i.e. 0.5%) of the 1000 effective vitamin D
treated subjects as well as some 20 (i.e. 2%) of the 1000 effective controls. The total of approximately 75 new
incident cancer cases will be matched to normal controls in a 1:2 matching, according to age and race. Values
of 25OHD will be seasonally adjusted as we did in a previous analysis. 111 The matching on age will be done
within 2-year intervals (i.e. within 1 year older or 1 year younger than the respective case). There are several
possible ways to analyze the so-obtained matched pairs data, in order to test for association between serum
25OHD levels and cancer incidence. The simplest approach is to first average the serum 25OHD level (at year
1) of the 2 controls for each case, and find the difference between the so-obtained average and the value for
the case. Next, perform a two-sided t-test on the sample of 75 differences with null hypothesis that the parental
population has mean zero (0). In case of acceptance of the null hypothesis (at level of significance 0.05) we
will conclude that the data at hand do not support association between serum 25OHD level and cancer
incidence, whereas rejection of the null hypothesis will imply association. Another, more comprehensive
approach would be to develop a linear model (not for the difference but) for the raw serum 25OHD level as
response variable, which model tests the effect of Cancer status (Yes vs No) while adjusting for covariates on
which we did not match (e.g. smoking; BMI, physical activity, hormone replacement therapy, parity, family
history of cancer), and accounting for the fact that the data are matched pairs. A still more comprehensive
analysis, instead of the raw serum 25OHD at year one, is to consider the difference between year one and
baseline, and build a model similar to the previous one.
     Secondary Hypotheses:
     1. Increasing serum 25OHD from prevailing levels will significantly decrease incidence of specific cancers:
breast, lung, colon and myeloma, leukemia, lymphoma. Based on our previous study, we expect the most
commonly occurring cancers to be breast, lung, colon and lymphoma, leukemia, myeloma. Therefore, we will
have each of these as secondary endpoints. We will test differences in frequency of breast, lung, and colon
cancer and lymphoma, leukemia, myeloma between the two treatment groups by Fisher Exact tests if possible,
otherwise chi-square with Yates’s correction for continuity (small numbers). We will use proportional hazards
regression for these cancers and for any other frequently occurring cancers where sample size allows. Also,
we will divide both baseline and one-year values of serum 25(OH)D of the entire cohort into quintiles and
determine whether there are statistically significant differences between the upper and lower quintiles in cancer
risk of the entire cohort for the specific cancer endpoints. We will also test for trend w.r.t. quintiles, which will be
more statistically powerful. Even if we do not find statistically significant differences between the specific
cancer subgroups, the analyses will still be of interest for generating new hypotheses and planning new
studies.
     2. Increasing serum 25OHD from prevailing levels will significantly decrease incidence of other disorders,
specifically hypertension, cardiovascular disease, osteoarthritis, colonic adenomas and diabetes, upper
respiratory infections and falls. We will analyze for these disease endpoints similarly to the main endpoint (all
type cancer diagnosis). Although the study is not powered to find statistically significant differences between
the treatment groups for these non-cancer endpoints, we may be able to detect an effect of vitamin D
supplementation. We will use Fisher Exact tests if possible, otherwise chi-square with Yates’s correction for
continuity (small numbers), to determine differences between the two treatment groups in frequency of the
specific diseases. We will use proportional hazards regression for hypertension, cardiovascular disease,
osteoarthritis, colonic adenomas, diabetes, falls and acute viral disorders. Also, we will divide both baseline
and one-year values of serum 25(OH)D of the entire cohort into quintiles and determine whether there are
statistically significant differences between the upper and lower quintiles in diagnosis of the designated
diseases of the entire cohort. We will also test for trend w.r.t. quintiles, which will be more statistically powerful.
If we find associations or significant trends between supplementation and/or serum 25(OH)D levels and other
diseases, future studies to target a specific disorder can be developed.

7. Data Management
     The study documents (hard copy) will be completed by the study nurses. All participants’ case report forms
(CRF’s) will be stored in the project nurses’ office. A Microsoft Access database will be developed with forms
that match the CRF’s.
     All handling of electronic data will be by forms. The study site personnel do not have access to the
underlying tables or to the database window. All data entered into the electronic data base, aside from names
and personal identifiers, will have validation rules. For instance, [date of birth] must fall into a permissible
range, and each such field will have a validation message to prompt the user when an impermissible value is
entered. Entries for categorical variables, like [recruitment status] or [medications], will be selected from pre-
established lists stored in tables rather than just typed in.
     All non-null data will be audit-trailed. Once a value has been entered or selected for a field, a change in
that value will prompt a preemptory demand for explanation. This will result in storing in an Audit table a new
row of data containing the table name, the field name, the user id, the date and time, and the reason.
Periodically, auditing queries will be run again in the Audit table to see if anything unusual is happening with
respect to particular data fields, sites, or participants.
     We have up-to-date anti-virus and firewall protection for the project staff members’ workstations.
Physically, the workstations are in locked offices, and each is password protected. The workstations are
connected in a local area network (LAN) through a router under our control. The database is stored on one of
the workstations. This workstation has daily incremental and weekly full backups to a tape drive. For off-site
backup, the database is transmitted encrypted at the end of each day to a file server complex in the Creighton
computer center complex, where it has the security projection of that center. There is also a laboratory
database for the assays of the serum samples. This is maintained through a secure workstation in our
biochemistry lab, and it resides in the same file server complex, which is a mile distant from the biochemistry
lab.
     To assure that the data are transmitted reliably from paper into electronic form, Dr. Haynatzki will supervise
quarterly checks of the data during the recruitment period. At each check, 10% of the biweekly dataset will be
randomly sampled by him and checked for errors by a data entry person. All errors that are detected in the
sample will be noted. Based on the sample, a 95% confidence interval (C.I.) will be built for the proportion of
errors in the quarterly dataset. If the upper bound of the C.I. exceeds 0.05%, the whole quarterly dataset will be
rejected and re-entered completely; otherwise, accepted. In any case, all detected errors will be corrected by
the data entry person.

8. Potential Problems for the Study
a. The sample of 2300 is a large number to recruit in one year.
     We recruited 1180 women in one year in our pilot study. We are working with MSR, the marketing
company with whom we worked in the pilot study so we are confident they can provide the candidates in a
timely manner. The most recent census data indicate that there are more than 26,000 women 60+ years in the
nine-county area that we are sampling. Our experience is that older women in this community are very
interested in participating in studies, even studies requiring more involvement than this one.
b. We are not measuring biomarkers other than 25OHD.
     We are collecting and storing blood and white blood cells to test for genetic markers should the intervention
be found effective in decreasing the incidence of cancer. Blood will be stored in a -70 freezer. Markers selected
will depend upon the state of the science at the time of analysis.
c. The sample is limited to post-menopausal women
     Findings from our pilot study, which included only post-menopausal women, need to be confirmed with a
prospective study designed with incidence of cancer as the outcome. Positive findings from the proposed study
will provide support for future studies in men and younger women.
d. We are not performing any cancer screening tests to detect early cancers.
     This would increase the cost prohibitively. In any event, we are interested in all cancers as the outcome,
and there are no accepted mass screening tests with adequate sensitivity and specificity for early lung and
bronchus, pancreatic, ovarian, esophageal, or gastric cancer, leukemia, lymphomas, or multiple myeloma,
among others. We will ascertain the time interval since the last mammogram and most recent screening
exams (fecal occult blood, sigmoidoscopy, barium enema, colonoscopy, or virtual colonoscopy) for colon and
rectal cancer) Pap smear, and endometrial biopsy, and full skin examination for cancer, will include that info in
stratifications and multivariate analyses, allowing us to adjust for time since last screening test. If needed, we
can examine the effect in women who have been screened recently. We will also ascertain a full history of use
of replacement hormones by each woman.
e. We are allowing subjects to take their own calcium and vitamin D supplements.
     Because of the high incidence of osteoporosis in this population and because some subjects will be given
placebos, we believe it would be unethical to advise women to avoid self- supplementation. Participants will be
informed that they may be assigned to placebo calcium and vitamin D. Because of the well-established need
for calcium for optimal skeletal health, participants will be told that they may take their own calcium
supplementation in addition to the study pills. However, to avoid risks of excessive calcium intake, participants
will be advised that they should limit their outside calcium supplementation to 500-600 mg/day. This combined
with their dietary intake of calcium will meet the current recommendations for health. Participants will also be
allowed to take their own vitamin D, but we will ask them to limit that to no more than 400 IU/day if they are <
70 years of age and to more than 600 IU/day if they are ≥ 70, which are the currently recommended intake
levels. We did allow subjects in our previous study to take their own supplements. We monitored self-
supplementation, quantified it and factored it into the analysis. The median and interquartile range for calcium
supplementation was 375 mg/d (0-762) and for vitamin D supplementation it was 200 IU/d (0-400). In those
taking vitamin D, the mean 25OHD at baseline was only 13.4 nmol/L higher than in those not receiving vitamin
D (75.7 nmol/L vs 62.3 nmol/L respectively); while treatment produced a rise of about 25 nmol/L, nearly twice
as great. In the proposed study, with twice the dose, the increment will be correspondingly higher. Thus it is a
virtual certainty that we will have a substantial difference in achieved D levels between the contrast groups.
With nutrients such as D, it is never a matter of comparing something with nothing (as in drug studies), but
more with less. Vitamin D self-supplementation may increase because of our findings. Many supplements
contain vitamin D2 which is less active than vitamin D3. We will be able to track and quantify vitamin D usage
by interview every 6 months and by analysis of serum 25OHD levels annually. In a secondary analysis, we will
look at the association of serum 25OHD and cancer incidence. It is widely acknowledged that on average
humans are not adherent to medication or supplement regimens. In fact, in the WHI clinical trial of vitamin D
supplementation, adherence was only about 50%. Thus, we believe that allowing self-supplementation will not
adversely affect our study, and we anticipate no effect on power.
f. One of the reviewers has stated that “ this is really an ambitious phase III trial. However, whether it will yield
additional critical information on chemoprevention on calcium and vitamin D is questionable”.
The study may be considered ambitious in the context of chemotherapy Phase III studies, but it is not large in
the context of primary prevention trials. For example, the Women's Health Initiative (WHI), which was a primary
prevention trial, enrolled 29,000 women in its calcium-vitamin D arm; this trial proposes enrolling only 2300
women, or less than 10% of the women enrolled in the WHI.
_This study provides additional critical information since it uses a higher dose of vitamin D3 (2000 IU) than has
been used previously as part of an intervention in a study with cancer as a designated outcome. This is new
and critical because it will help to quantify the dose-response relationship of vitamin D with incidence of cancer.
Previous studies have used only 1100 IU/day17 or a very low dose of vitamin D (400 IU).18
_The timing of this study is crucial. As yet, no voluntary or professional medical organization in the US
recommends intake of vitamin D3 in the 2000 IU dose range for disease prevention, so the study is feasible
now. If the study is delayed, this could change, and the study would become far harder to perform. The result
would be the loss of a great opportunity for confirmation of the effect of 2000 IU vitamin D and calcium in a
human clinical trial. This would be a loss to the contribution of science to the vitamin D-calcium-cancer issue.
_The investigators are experienced in doing clinical trials, and have the requisite skills and knowledge for
successful completion of this study.
_The study design is optimal for answering the critical question that is being posed. Specifically:
1) The proposed study will have high statistical power for detection of an effect of the intervention on all
cancers (87%-98%), assuming the anticipated base cancer incidence rate of 1.5% per year, and effect size
(RR=0.25) is as previously observed. Power is also adequate (87%) for a detection of a much weaker than
expected effect size (RR=0.4), based on an estimated base rate cancer incidence rate of 1.5% per year. Since
cancer incidence is exponentially associated with age, and the new study includes a slightly older age
distribution ( >60 vs. > 55 years in the previous study by our group), this makes it highly likely that the base
cancer rate is at least 1.5%.
2) The latitude of Omaha is 41.4 degrees, and its climate is consistent with a sufficient duration of the
continental winter climate to allow a drop in summer 25(OH)D, which has a half-life of only 3 weeks, making
the effect of the intervention dose of vitamin D more detectable than in an area with a shorter winter.
3) The study uses vitamin D3, which was used in the previous study by our group and is consistent with most
observational studies that have shown an effect of vitamin D on risk of cancer, where it is possible to at least
approximately distinguish vitamin D3 from vitamin D2.
4) The vitamin D content of each lot of vitamin D tablets will be confirmed when received and at the end of
each year. The vitamin D tablet are from the same manufacturer (Tishcon) that provided the tablets for the
previous study, whose vitamin D content was confirmed as accurate in the Chen-Holick laboratory, a
distinguished laboratory with extensive experience in vitamin D analysis.
5) Adherence will confirmed by serum 25(OH)D measurements at baseline and in each year of the study.
6) The accuracy of serum 25(OH)D measurements will be confirmed by participation in the international quality
assessment process for vitamin D assays (DEQAS). 19
7) This study has a similar age range, i.e., at least 60 years, similar to the age group (> 55 years) in which a
statistically significant effect of vitamin D and calcium on risk of all cancers combined has been previously
shown.17
8) There will be frequent follow-up interviews (every 6 months).
9) All cancer cases will be confirmed by physician examination of the medical record using a uniform case
definition for each cancer site. Only cancers which have been microscopically confirmed and adjudicated by a
central pathologist will be included in the study.
10) Relative homogeneity of the population is likely to reduce the influence of extraneous factors (statistical
noise) on the measurement of the effect of the intervention on cancer incidence rates.
   _The combination of a very cooperative Midwest population and an experienced research team renders it
likely that the proposed project will have excellent adherence for vitamin D. Adherence in our previous study
was 86% for vitamin D 17 This is in contrast to vitamin D adherence of about 50% in the WHI.18 Furthermore,
use of separate vitamin D and calcium tablets will allow dropping calcium but not vitamin D. Some previous
studies, including the WHI, did not have this flexibility. It is well-accepted that Vitamin D given at 2000 IU/day
does not cause adverse health effects,16 so there is little incentive for dropping it.
_Relationships have already been established with local physicians that will facilitate the proposed study. For
example, women often consult their physicians about the wisdom of study participation. In our previous study,
local physicians were very supportive.
__ A low rate of attrition is expected, since 87% of women in the previous study completed it.

Thus, we are confident that we will be able to conduct the proposed trial, and we are convinced that it will yield
additional critical information on chemoprevention on calcium and vitamin D.
