Source document ID: JAMA2025_9110_D04_RESULTS_SUPP
Source PDF: joi250040supp3_prod_1753124024.38098.pdf
Source PDF page: 5
Extraction method: native
Native extraction quality: acceptable
---
© 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and
similar technologies.
serious adverse events (SAEs) in this study 4. Events already defined and reported as study outcomes (e.g., mortality)
were not reported separately as AEs and SAEs unless they were considered to be causally related to the study
intervention or were otherwise of concern in the site principal investigator’s judgement. SAEs were reported up to day
90 post -study enrolment, including SAEs that we re considered related to trial enteral nutrition , namely mesenteric
ischemia and abdominal compartment syndrome, were at the discretion of each site’s principal investigator5, 6.

Tertiary outcomes
Biochemical data were collected on study days 1, 5 and 10 only whilst in ICU.

Secondary analyses
Secondary analyses for the primary outcome were conducted by fitting 1) a linear mixed model to align with the sample
size calculation, and 2) a Bayesian quantile mixed model to “augment” interpretation of the trial by producing a
distribution of effect sizes that are compatible with the observed trial data (posterior distribution) and the probability of
any treatment benefit. To summarize the posterior distribution, the posterior mean of the regression coefficient for
treatment from the Bayesian quantile mixed effects model (difference in medians) and 95% credible interval (2.5
th and
97.5th percentiles of the posterior distribution) are presented.

Sensitivity analyses
Planned sensitivity analyses for the primary outcome were conducted excluding patients known to have received non-
trial enteral nutrition and patients admitted for palliative care or organ donation. A sensitivity analysis was planned using
imputation for missing primary outcome data but was not required because there were no missing data.

R packages and Stata commands
Primary analysis
Quantile mixed effects modelling was performed using the lqmm function in R’s lqmm package 7, 8. The derivative free
(Nelder-Mead) estimation method was specified, and default initial values were used (least squares estimate for the
fixed effects and a value of one for the variance component). 95% CIs were generated from 1000 bootstrap
samples/replications.
A model-based residual variance can be derived as described in 7 (page 9), and used, along with the estimate of 𝜎𝜎𝐶𝐶
2, to
estimate the intracluster correlation (ICC).

Secondary analyses
Linear mixed modelling was performed using the lmer function in R’s lme4 package
9. The ICC was derived from the
estimate of σ𝐶𝐶
2  and the residual error variance.
Bayesian quantile mixed modelling was performed using the brm function in R’s brms package10, 11. The default initial
values (randomly generated by the brm function) and the default prior distributions were specified:
