Source PDF: jama_garrison_2025_oi_250019_1749674951.29054.pdf
Source PDF page: 10
Document ID: JAMA2025-4390-MAIN
Extraction: native PDF text layer

annually over the 9 years of the MAPEC study and 10 years of
Hygia. In our experience, primary care patients are often
reluctant to repeat 24-hour ABPM, let alone 48-hour ABPM,
due to inconvenience and sleep disruption. Our BedMed
experiencesupportsthis,with57%of24-hourABPMinvitees
declining participation. Unfortunately, MAPEC and Hygia did
not report withdrawals and loss to follow-up as convention-
ally defined—with no description regarding whose data were
censored and how censoring dates were chosen. If attrition
was high and nonrandom or unbalanced, it might explain
some of the discrepancy between MAPEC and Hygia vs
BedMed and TIME.
To our knowledge, BedMed is the first RCT to examine
the effect of bedtime antihypertensive use on cognition,
new glaucoma diagnosis, and subjective visual deteriora-
tion. It complements TIME by studying cardiovascular out-
comes in a higher-risk population, given that BedMed did
not exclude individuals taking twice-daily antihyperten-
sives (twice-daily β-blockers being common in patients with
heart failure and coronary artery disease, and twice-daily
antihypertensives being more common in those with
difficult-to-control hypertension). Although most BedMed
and TIME outcomes were defined differently and cannot be
directly compared, all-cause mortality was 0.80 per 100
patient-years in TIME vs 1.20 per 100 patient-years in
BedMed (ie, BedMed participants had 50% higher all-cause
mortality).
Limitations
There are limitations to our findings. First, the 24-hour
ABPM assessments came from a small cohort of 302 volun-
teers; there was a high refusal rate. Selection bias might
account for the large difference (−7.4 mm Hg) in sleep-time
systolic BP, given that differences reported from a system-
atic review (−2.3 mm Hg)
34 and a randomized crossover trial
(a nonsignificant −1.7 mm Hg)35 were much smaller. How-
ever, we did not use ABPM to guide BP management, and
neither do most Canadian primary care clinicians, who, in
our experience, use ABPM mainly for diagnosing hyperten-
sion rather than for ongoing BP management.
Second,adherencetoallocationtimewasself-reportedand
waslowerinthebedtimegroup. However,ourmedicationtim-
ingadherenceappearscomparablewiththatachievedinTIME,
andadherencetoallocationtimewasnotreportedinMAPEC
orHygia—thosetrialsreportedonlythelikelihoodofmissed/
forgottendosesviatheMoriskyGreenLevinemeasure.
36 Al-
thoughwechosenottoexcludepeopletakingdiuretics,whose
adherence to bedtime allocation was lower, those taking di-
ureticsweresimilarlyincludedintheTIME,MAPEC,andHygia
trials. Additionally, we found similar results for the primary
outcomeinaposthocper-protocolanalysisthatexcludedpar-
ticipants taking medications with poorer adherence (diuret-
icsandβ-blockers).
Third, the BedMed trial stopped early, with fewer pri-
mary outcomes than Hygia and TIME.However, BedMed’s
primary outcome confidence interval rules out the 25%
reduction that our study was powered to detect or exclude
(BedMed excluded a hazard ratio ≤0.76; TIME excluded a
hazard ratio ≤0.82), and this confidence interval has no over-
lap with the corresponding primary outcome confidence
intervals in MAPEC and Hygia, suggesting sufficient power to
conclude that the findings of BedMed vs MAPEC and Hygia
are not congruent. BedMed is simultaneously strengthened
by broad generalizability to primary care settings, having
recruited from 436 widely distributed primary care practices,
and a low 3% overall withdrawal/loss to follow-up.
Conclusions
Among adults with hypertension in primary care, bedtime
administration of antihypertensive medications was safe but
did not reduce cardiovascular risk. Antihypertensive medica-
tion administration time did not affect the risks and benefits
of BP-lowering medication and instead should be guided by
patient preferences.
ARTICLE INFORMATION
Accepted for Publication: March 15, 2025.
Published Online: May 12, 2025.
doi:10.1001/jama.2025.4390
Author Affiliations: Pragmatic Trials Collaborative,
University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada (Garrison,
Kolber, Korownyk, Green, Kirkwood, Kelmer,
Gayayan, Campbell, Vucenovic, Archibald, Kraut,
Allan); Department of Family Medicine, University
of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada (Garrison, Kolber,
Korownyk, Green, Kirkwood, Kelmer, Gayayan,
Campbell, Vucenovic, Archibald, Manca, Kraut,
Allan); Provincial Research Data Services, Alberta
Health Services, Edmonton, Canada (Bakal, Yeung,
Youngson, Wang); Alberta Strategy for Patient
Oriented Research Support Unit (AbSPORU),
Edmonton, Canada (Bakal, McAlister, Youngson);
Division of General Internal Medicine, Department
of Medicine, University of Alberta, Edmonton,
Canada (McAlister, Padwal, Lewanczuk);
Department of Clinical Neurosciences, Cumming
School of Medicine, University of Calgary, Calgary,
Alberta, Canada (Hill); Department of Medicine,
University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Canada (Singer,
Katz); School of Population and Public Health,
University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada
(McGrail, Wong); Centre for Health Services and
Policy Research, Vancouver, British Columbia,
Canada (McGrail); Department of Family and
Community Medicine, University of Toronto,
Toronto, Ontario, Canada (O’Neill, Greiver);
Department of Medicine, Cumming School of
Medicine, University of Calgary, Calgary, Alberta,
Canada (Manns); Department of Family Medicine,
McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada
(Mangin); Department of Primary Care, University
of Otago, Christchurch, New Zealand (Mangin);
Academic Family Medicine, University of
Saskatchewan, Saskatoon, Canada (MacLean);
Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of
British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada (McCormack);
School of Nursing, University of British Columbia,
Vancouver, Canada (Wong); Faculty of Nursing,
University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada (Norris).
Author Contributions: Drs Garrison and Bakal had
full access to all of the data in the study and take
responsibility for the integrity of the data and the
accuracy of the data analysis.
Concept and design: Garrison, Bakal, Kolber,
Korownyk, Green, McAlister, Padwal, Lewanczuk,
Hill, Singer, Katz, Gayayan, Campbell, Youngson,
McGrail, Mangin, McCormack, Wong, Norris, Allan.
Acquisition, analysis, or interpretation of data:
Garrison, Bakal, Kolber, Korownyk, Kirkwood,
McAlister, Padwal, Hill, Singer, Katz, Kelmer,
Gayayan, Campbell, Vucenovic, Archibald, Yeung,
Youngson, O’Neill, Greiver, Manca, Kraut, Wang,
Manns, MacLean, Wong.
Drafting of the manuscript: Garrison, Kelmer,
Gayayan, Vucenovic, Youngson.
Critical review of the manuscript for important
intellectual content: Bakal, Kolber, Korownyk,
Green, Kirkwood, McAlister, Padwal, Lewanczuk,
Hill, Singer, Katz, Kelmer, Gayayan, Campbell,
Vucenovic, Archibald, Yeung, Youngson, McGrail,
O’Neill, Greiver, Manca, Kraut, Wang, Manns,
Mangin, MacLean, McCormack, Wong, Norris, Allan.
Research Original Investigation Antihypertensive Medication Timing and Cardiovascular Events and Death
2070 JAMA June 17 , 2025 Volume 333, Number 23 (Reprinted) jama.com
© 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.
Downloaded from jamanetwork.com by University of Arizona Health Sciences Library user on 07/23/2026
