                                                  2


.




© 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data mining,
AI training, and similar technologies.
                                                  3


eMethods.
Eligibility Criteria
Inclusion criteria (patients meeting ALL the following criteria were enrolled):
•   Age equal to or above 18 years.
•   Both genders.
•   In case of women, unwillingness to become pregnant during the study period.
•   Written informed consent provided by the patient or by one first-degree
    relative/spouse in case of patients unable to consent.
•   Community-acquired pneumonia (CAP) or hospital-acquired pneumonia (HAP) or
    ventilator-associated pneumonia (VAP) or primary bacteremia (BSI). These are
    defined in eTable 3 using three sets of criteria per infection. Enrolled patients
    should meet criteria as defined in eTable 3.
•   Sepsis defined by the Sepsis-3 definitions. More precisely, sepsis is defined as
    the presence of total SOFA (sequential organ failure assessment) score equal to
    2 or more for patients who are admitted with infection at the emergency
    department OR as any increase of admission SOFA by 2 or more points for
    patients already hospitalized.1
•   Patients with signs of fulminant hyper-inflammation (macrophage activation-like
    syndrome, MALS) or sepsis-induced immunoparalysis as defined in eTable 4.
    Since the state of MALS is considered more life-threatening than the state of
    immunoparalysis, patients with lab findings of both immune states are allocated to
    treatment targeting MALS. Patients with active COVID-19 infection according to
    the attending physicians may participate only in the MALS arm. Patients
    developing secondary infection in the field of COVID-19 according to the
    judgment of the attending physicians were allowed to be enrolled only if they had
    laboratory finding of sepsis-induced immunoparalysis (eTable 4)
•   Time from classification into sepsis by the Sepsis-3 definitions and start of blind
    intervention less than 72 hours.




© 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data mining,
AI training, and similar technologies.
                                                  4


Exclusion criteria (patients meeting ANY of the following criteria COULD NOT be
enrolled in the study):
•   Age below 18 years.
•   Denial for written informed consent.
•   Acute pyelonephritis or intraabdominal infection, meningitis or skin infection.
•   Any stage IV malignancy.
•   Neutropenia defined as an absolute neutrophil count lower than 1,500/mm3.
•   Any “do not resuscitate” decision in the hospital.
•   In the case of BSI, patients with blood cultures growing coagulase-negative
    staphylococci or skin commensals or catheter-related infections could not be
    enrolled.
•   Active tuberculosis (TB) as defined by the co-administration of drugs for the
    treatment of TB.
•   Infection by the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV).
•   Any primary immunodeficiency.
•   Oral or intravenous intake of corticosteroids at a daily dose equal or greater than
    0.4 mg/kg prednisone for more than the last 15 days.
•   Any anti-cytokine biological treatment the last one month.
•   Medical history of systemic lupus erythematosus.
•   Medical history of multiple sclerosis or any other demyelinating disorder.
•   Pregnancy or lactation. Women of child-bearing potential were screened by a
    urine pregnancy test before inclusion in the study.




© 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data mining,
AI training, and similar technologies.
                                                  5


Lab measurements
        Ferritin was measured in serum by an enzyme immunosorbent assay
(ORGENTEC Diagnostika GmbH, Mainz, Germany; lower detection limit 75ng/ml).
Using whole blood collected in EDTA-coated vials, white blood cells were incubated
for 15 minutes in the dark with the following monoclonal antibodies: anti-CD14 FITC,
anti-HLA-DR-PE, anti-CD45 PC5 (Immunotech, Marseille, France) and Quantibrite
HLA-DR/anti-monocyte PerCP-Cy5 (Quantibrite, BD Biosciences, Franklin Lakes,
NJ, USA, CE-marked in vitro diagnostic (IVD) test). After incubation, cells were
analysed by flow cytometer FC500 versus cells stained with anti-CD45 PC5 and anti-
idiotypic IgG1. The number of antibodies bound on the surface antigen HLA-DR on
CD45/CD14-positive monocytes was counted by the Navios EX flow cytometer
(Beckman Coulter, Brea, USA) and considered an expression of the absolute count
of HLA-DR receptors. Measurements of ferritin and HLA-DR of Greek study sites
were done in the study central lab (Research Laboratory of Immunology, 4th
Department of Internal Medicine, ATTIKON University General Hospital, Greece).
Measurements of ferritin and HLA-DR in the other study sites were done following
study lab protocols shared by the study sponsor (Hellenic Institute for the Study of
Sepsis) and by using exactly the same reagents.




© 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data mining,
AI training, and similar technologies.
