                                                                                                                                                              11


Data was analyzed by mixed model repeat measures (MMRM) with prespecified covariates including pre-treatment ALSFRS-R slope

(delta-FRS), months from symptom onset, use of riluzole, use of edaravone; covariate by visit interaction, and treatment by visit

interaction. NfL was analyzed in the regimen only dataset. For the primary analyses of neurofilament, all values obtained were

included in the analysis (i.e., no outliers were excluded). To assess whether the serum NfL result was sensitive to outliers, a post hoc

analysis was performed that excluded outliers (observations with very low NfL values, namely those <4 pg/mL or <2% of the

maximum for a given participant. This excluded one baseline NfL for one participant in the placebo group.



Urinary p75 extracellular domain (p75ecd) was analyzed at Flinders University in the Rogers Lab. Urinary p75 extracellular domain

was quantified using a sandwich enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) in 96-well plates, as previously described. Only

samples from the CNM-Au8 regimen were analyzed for urinary p75ecd.



Prespecified exploratory outcomes for time to event analyses included time to hospitalization, placement of a feeding tube, use of

assisted ventilation, King’s Stage 4, death alone, and death or PAV. Analysis used an adjusted Cox regression using the same

covariates described for the primary endpoint as well as participant age. King’s stage analysis was interval censored; other variables

were right censored. Death or PAV was censored at the time the participant was last known to be alive.



Subgroup Analyses

                                                                                                                                                              11

                 © 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.
