                                                                                                                                                               6


performed using only Regimen C participants (CNM-Au8 and placebo), called the regimen-only analyses. Safety analyses were

performed in an equivalent full analysis set for safety that included all Regimen C participants who initiated treatment and all placebo

participants from Regimens A, B, and D except those who were known to be ineligible for the CNM-Au8 regimen (i.e., those with

gold allergy).



The primary analysis on the FAS used longitudinal ALSFRS-R scores from all scheduled visits (Weeks 0, 4, 8, 12, 16, 20 and 24) or

from any early termination or ad hoc visits substituting for a planned visit.



Primary analysis methods

The primary analysis is a Bayesian shared parameter model of function and survival that provides an integrated estimate of the

increase or decrease in the rate of disease progression on treatment relative to control. The analysis model has components for each

endpoint that are linked through an integrated estimate of disease slowing in treatment relative to control across the two endpoints

(denoted as the disease rate ratio, or DRR). This composite variable strategy fully incorporates effects of treatment on the intercurrent

event of death. The DRR measures the ratio of ALSFRS-R slopes within the functional component or the hazard ratio within the

survival component with values less than 1 indicating slowing in disease progression This parameter can be interpreted as the

slowing in the rate of disease progression measured across both endpoints. A DRR of 0.50 corresponds to a 50% slowing in the rate

of disease progression. If a participant in the control group would be expected to decrease 6 points over 6 months, then under a DRR

                                                                                                                                                               6

                  © 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.
