                                                                                                                                                               8


across regimens and the analysis will be similar to a pooled analysis across regimens. If the variability in the rate of progression is

estimated to be large across regimens, the model will borrow less across regimens and the analysis will be similar to an independent

analysis across regimens.

The Bayesian posterior distribution of all model parameters is calculated using Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC). We drew at least

500,000 samples from the posterior distribution with a thinning of 10. The exact number of samples from the MCMC was determined

based on convergence diagnostics to ensure an adequate effective sample size of the posterior distribution.

Prespecified sensitivity analyses, including CAFS, which was employed as a sensitivity analysis, in addition to a secondary endpoint,

were performed to assess the sensitivity of the results to the primary analysis population, modeling assumptions, and missing data

assumptions as described in Statistical Analysis Plan (available as a Supplement).



Interim Analyses

A regimen could be stopped early should prespecified interim analyses indicate futility. Interim analyses occurred simultaneously for

all actively enrolling regimens and included any regimen within the master protocol that had 40 active randomized participants (30

study drug and 10 placebo). Subsequent interim analyses occurred every 12 weeks. As described in the master protocol, early futility

would be declared if the regimen had a posterior probability of <5% that CNM-Au8 would slow ALSFRS-R decline by at least 10%.

There was no stopping rule for early success.




                                                                                                                                                               8

                  © 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.
