trials unit only after the study was completed. We hypothesized, based on previous literature, that

physical domains would likely respond to heart rate control, and 6-months was chosen due to the

assumed impact of other comorbidities over longer periods.

SF36 was scored according to eight domains, and the Physical and Mental Component Summaries

(PCS and MCS) derived from these domains. In brief, the answer from each SF36 question is

numerically coded and then summed with other questions to form the domain scores with a range of

0 to 100, with higher scores representing better self-reported health. These are then multiplied by a

population-based factor and summed to generate the PCS and MCS, which also have a range of 0 to

100. Similar to other instruments, anchor-based analysis suggests a minimal clinically important

difference (MCID) of 0.5 SD.4 This distributional criterion encompasses the variability in MCID

observed across different disease populations. Absolute values in heart failure are between 4.1 and

9.2 when anchored to mortality5 (see Supplement 3, eTable 6 for studies in patients with AF). In

the Statistical Analysis Plan, domain and summary scores were primarily analyzed using raw

values; for ease of interpretation and comparison, these are also presented normalized to a mean

score of 50 according to UK-based survey data.6

The EuroQol EQ-5D-5L questionnaire includes: (1) a Visual Analogue Score, a mark placed by the

patient on a scale of 0 (worst health that can be imagined) to 100 (best health that can be imagined);

and (2) the Summary Index Score, which is derived from a five-level scale for 5 domains of general

QoL and converted to an index score with a range of 0 (death) to 1 (complete health). Results are

mapped to the England value set for EQ-5D-3L7 in accordance with guidance from the National

Institute for Health Research, with an average MCID of 0.18.8 The Atrial Fibrillation Effect on

QualiTy-of-life (AFEQT) questionnaire was scored as described9, by generating an overall score

and then subscales for symptoms, daily activities, treatment concern and treatment satisfaction. All

scores range from 0 (complete disability) to 100 (highest level of QoL). Using the EHRA score as

an anchor, a 5-point change in AFEQT scores are expected to be clinically important.10

© 2020 American Medical Association. All rights reserved.
