927
928   During the start-up phase, the data manager and Dr. Leon will help standardize data collection forms and data
929   auditing procedures across the four sites in collaboration with the Cornell Inter-Site Project Coordinator. The
930   data management team has developed a set of standards and procedures for data entry and checking and for
931   the documentation of data sets generated for statistical analysis. These methods, which assure the integrity of
932   study data, are described below. In addition to preparing and then locking data sets that report results from this
933   project, the data manager will analyze results of the annual rater inter-rater reliability assessments. He will
934   also oversee and execute procedures for data security and access, data quality control, storage, and back-up,
935   and will provide periodic reports of accrual, follow-up, and summary statistics as required by the Data Safety
936   Monitoring Board (DSMB).
937
938   Data Integrity: Sites will send original copies of de-identified hard data to the data management team at Cornell
939   by overnight shipping every second week. Sites will retain hard copies of these records. The de-identified hard
940   data will be stored in a locked filing cabinet stored in a locked office to further protect subject anonymity.
941   Results will be published as group data without the use of characteristics that would identify individual subjects.
942   Data auditing, entry and quality control will be carried out at Cornell under the supervision of the data
943   management team. The Cornell data management team has many years of experience in data management
944   and coordination of multi-study, multi-site research projects. The data management team has developed an
945   infrastructure that supports the design of and standardization of databases, data entry, data quality control, and
946   preparation of data for statistical analysis. This expertise will be applied in implementing a system that assures
947   the quality of data entry, storage, verification, and validation, and the reporting of data from this study. This will
948   involve consultation with the study’s statistician on the design of study databases and other issues related to
949   the study's data management infrastructure. Emphasis will be given to incorporate database components that
950   were used in STOP-PD because the proposed project is also a randomized controlled trial and uses variables
951   that overlap with those used in STOP-PD. This system will also support the tracking of subjects and data at
952   the individual sites. The Cornell data management team will maintain regular communication with site study
953   coordinators to ensure that data collection is complete and accurate. Regularly scheduled, and as needed,
954   communications between the inter-site project coordinator at Cornell, the data manager, and raters and
955   investigators will be used to clarify inconsistencies and ambiguities in data submitted to Cornell.
956
957   A project team dedicated to the study led by the study’s statistician will oversee all data management and
958   quality assurance procedures, including coordination across sites. All data management resources used at
959   Cornell in the multi-site and single site studies conducted through the Geriatric Institute will be made available
960   to the proposed study. Data management resources will be devoted to overall quality assurance including:
961   maintaining interview schedules and subject tracking, monitoring scale completion, monitoring the accuracy of
962   scale completion and data entry, analyzing results of inter-rater reliability assessments as instructed by the
963   investigators, and developing and maintaining a dataset for use in analyses that have been approved by the
964   Publications Sub-Committee. The data management staff has automated many data management steps,
965   which will facilitate the development of the database and the standardization of databases and procedures
966   across sites. For example, several steps in database design have been automated previously so that when the
967   database of the proposed study is set up, it will have a standard structure, with all tables set up the same way
968   and variables named following a standard convention. The data management team has also has developed a
969   set of standards and procedures for documentation of data sets produced for statistical analysis.
970
971   To assure that the entry of subject data is accurate, the data management team audits 100% of the data
972   turned in by research assistants and investigators for necessary identifiers, item completeness and
973   consistency of major clinical indicators. Audits include such factors as diagnosis, depression severity (Ham-D)
974   and whether the severity score is consistent with the diagnosis. Data are audited and tracked by scale. To
975   date, the auditing system at Cornell has tracked over 170,000 individual scales representing all studies
976   conducted at Cornell. These data have been contributed by users of the Advanced Center for Services and
977   Intervention Center (Dr. Alexopoulos); through various R24 research infrastructure grants (Dr. Meyers and Dr.
978   Bruce); through the two U01 grants led by Cornell investigators (Dr. Meyers and Dr. Young); and by
979   investigators conducting R01s at Cornell. When problems are found (approximately 6% of scales), the
980   instrument is returned to the interviewer. Also, errors are entered into a report, which is then sent to the
981   relevant site’s coordinator. The coordinator is responsible for ensuring the errors are corrected within two
                                                                                                                         20
