Simplified Severe Sepsis Protocol-2 (SSSP-2): A Randomized Controlled
     Trial of a Bundled Intervention for Severe Sepsis in Zambia



                                   Protocol version 1.0
                                       4th May 2012




                                   Principal Investigator

Name: Ben Andrews
Qualifications: MD, ABIM Certified, CTropMed, CertHIVSpecialist
Present Appointment/Affiliations: Honorary Lecturer, Department of Internal Medicine,
University of Zambia School of Medicine; Fellow, Institute for Global Health, Vanderbilt
University School of Medicine, Nashville, TN, USA


                                     Co-Investigators

Name: Levy Muchemwa               Qualifications: MBChB
Present Appointment/Affiliations: Registrar, Department of Internal Medicine, University
Teaching Hospital; Masters of Medicine student, Department of Internal Medicine, UNZA
School of Medicine

Name: Shabir Lakhi                Qualifications: MBChB, MMed, MPH
Present Appointment/Affiliations: Head, Department of Internal Medicine, University of
Zambia School of Medicine and University Teaching Hospital
Simplified Severe Sepsis Protocol-2 (SSSP-2): A Randomized Controlled Trial of a Bundled
Intervention for Severe Sepsis in Zambia
PI: Andrews, Ben                      Protocol version: 1.0                      4-May-2012
                                                Table of Contents

   1. Executive Summary ..............................................................................................           3
   2. Background ...........................................................................................................     5
   3. Literature Review and Preliminary Data ................................................................ 6
   4. Justification of the Study ........................................................................................ 10
   5. Objectives and Hypothesis .................................................................................... 11
   6. Methodology .......................................................................................................... 12
          a. Specific Aim 1: SSSP Effectiveness ........................................................... 12
                   i. Study Design, Setting, Patients, Patient Recruitment and Consent 12
                  ii. Simplified Severe Sepsis Protocol ................................................... 13
                 iii. Evaluation of Patients ...................................................................... 14
                 iv. Outcomes, Sample size, and Analysis ............................................. 15
          b. Specific Aim 2: Budget Impact Analysis of SSSP ....................................... 17
                   i. Model description, Perspective, Scenarios to be compared,
                      Population, Time horizon, Costing .................................................... 17
                  ii. Data Sources ..................................................................................... 18
                 iii. Sensitivity Analysis, Discounting, Limitations .................................... 19
          c. Specific Aims 3 and 4: Tuberculosis-associated severe sepsis ................... 20
                   i. TB-specific Laboratory Investigations, Outcomes, and Analysis ...... 20
   7. Ethical Considerations ........................................................................................... 22
   8. Study Budget, and Timeline .................................................................................. 24
   9. Funding Sources and Declaration of Conflict of Interest......................................... 25
   10. References ............................................................................................................. 26




                                                                2
Simplified Severe Sepsis Protocol-2 (SSSP-2): A Randomized Controlled Trial of a Bundled
Intervention for Severe Sepsis in Zambia
PI: Andrews, Ben                      Protocol version: 1.0                      4-May-2012
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

Background: Despite expanding ART coverage in sub-Saharan Africa, early mortality after
starting treatment remains high. At the University Teaching Hospital in Lusaka, sepsis—the
systemic inflammatory response to infection—is the leading cause of death among adult
medical patients, disproportionately affecting those who are HIV positive. In recent years,
evidence-based protocols of bundled therapies have improved survival of severe sepsis in
developed countries. However, management of sepsis in sub-Saharan Africa remains
variable. Simple therapies such as IV fluids and early antibiotics are frequently under-
utilized. The original SSSP pilot study evaluated a simplified management protocol for
treating severe sepsis, but it included a heterogeneous population of septic patients with
variable pathophysiological bases underlying the observed organ dysfunctions. No studies
in sub-Saharan Africa have evaluated interventions to improve outcomes in patients with
septic shock or severe sepsis and hypotension.

General Objective: The overall objective of this study is to ascertain the effectiveness and
costs of the simplified severe sepsis protocol in patients with severe sepsis or septic shock
and to assess methods for diagnosing tuberculosis in HIV positive patients with severe
sepsis.

Specific Aims:
  1. To assess the impact on survival of a simple evidence-based protocol for severe
      sepsis or septic shock
  2. To evaluate the cost of implementation for a simplified severe sepsis protocol
  3. To develop a clinical diagnostic score for identifying tuberculosis in HIV positive
      patients with severe sepsis
  4. To assess the performance of the Xpert TB/RIF rapid PCR system and urine
      lipoarabinomannan assay for diagnosing tuberculosis in HIV positive patients with
      severe sepsis

Hypothesis: The Simplified Severe Sepsis Protocol will significantly decrease in-hospital
mortality in patients with severe sepsis with hypotension.

Methodology
Study Design: This study will be a randomized controlled trial. The design is based on the
original SSSP study with minor modifications to the inclusion criteria and sample size.
Patients: Adult patients presenting to the UTH Adult filter clinic with severe sepsis. Severe
sepsis is defined as all 3 of the following
      1) infection suspected by the treating physician
      2) 2 or more of the following SIRS criteria:
         - Heart rate >90/min                    --Respiratory rate >20/min
         - Temperature ≥ 38° C or < 36° C        --White blood count > 12,000 or < 4,000/μL
      3) 1 of the following:
         - Systolic BP ≤ 90 mm Hg
         - Mean arterial blood pressure (MAP) ≤ 65 mm Hg OR

We will exclude patients with volume overload, assessed by looking at the patients’ neck
veins. We will also exclude patients with hypoxemic respiratory failure.



                                              3
Simplified Severe Sepsis Protocol-2 (SSSP-2): A Randomized Controlled Trial of a Bundled
Intervention for Severe Sepsis in Zambia
PI: Andrews, Ben                      Protocol version: 1.0                      4-May-2012
Intervention: The intervention will be a bundled treatment protocol. All components of the
protocol are currently used in the hospital in an unbundled and non-standardized fashion.
The protocol will guide more standardized usage:
    1. All patients randomized to intervention will receive rapid infusion of 2 Liters of IV
        fluids.
    2. If patients are not volume overloaded they will then receive 2 additional Liters in 4
        hours.
    3. Patients with low blood pressures after the first 2 Liters of fluid will receive a
        continuous infusion of dopamine to raise the BP.
    4. Blood cultures will be drawn from each patient and antibiotics started after blood
        cultures, preferably within one hour of assessment.
    5. Patients with severe anaemia, defined as haemoglobin < 7 or severe pallor, will
        receive blood transfusion as soon as blood is available, if patient consents.
Control: The control arm will receive care as directed by emergency room physicians’
orders. Study nurses will ensure treatments are carried out as ordered in both arms.

Primary outcome measure: In-hospital all-cause mortality

Secondary outcome measures:
  1. 28-day all-cause mortality
  2. In-hospital and 28-day mortalities adjusted for illness severity
  3. Time to death
  4. Culture proven tuberculosis infection
  5. Process measures, including IV fluid and dopamine quantities administered, and
     change in antibiotics based on culture results

Analysis: Primary and secondary analysis will use Mantel-Haenszel tests of comparison.
Adjusted mortality will use multivariable logistic regression. TB diagnostic score will also be
derived using logistic regression of pooled data from SSSP and SSSP-2 studies.
Performance of diagnostic score, Xpert, and urine lipoarabinomannan assay will be
assessed by sensitivity, specificity, and positive and negative predictive values.




                                              4
Simplified Severe Sepsis Protocol-2 (SSSP-2): A Randomized Controlled Trial of a Bundled
Intervention for Severe Sepsis in Zambia
PI: Andrews, Ben                      Protocol version: 1.0                       4-May-2012
BACKGROUND
Two-thirds of the world’s 33 million HIV-infected persons live in sub-Saharan Africa. As a
result of collaborative international efforts, approximately 44% of the 7 million patients with
advanced HIV disease in the region are now receiving anti-retroviral therapy (ART)1.
Although ART has improved survival, early mortality remains high immediately after
initiation of therapy2-4. In Africa, tuberculosis, cryptococcal meningitis, and acute bacterial
sepsis are the leading causes of death among early- or pre-ART HIV positive patients2,5-6.
Most critically ill patients with tuberculosis and cryptococcal meningitis also present with
sepsis, a syndrome consisting of systemic inflammatory response to severe infection.
Sepsis was present in 96% of critically ill Brazilian patients with TB and 84% of Taiwanese
patients with culture positive cryptococcal disease 7, 8. Hence, it is likely that the majority of
patients who die from HIV-related causes are septic at the time of presentation to the
hospital.

In recent years, the management of sepsis in developed countries has followed a bundled
protocol-based approach as outlined by the Surviving Sepsis Campaign9, 10. These
evidence-based guidelines highlight the importance of early fluid resuscitation, infection
management and hemodynamic support for improving sepsis outcomes. The limited sepsis
data from sub-Saharan Africa, however, show deficiencies in even the simplest evidence-
based interventions, such as early fluid resuscitation and antibiotic administration11, 12.
Additionally, although tuberculosis is the leading cause of sepsis in sub-Saharan Africa,
early diagnosis is difficult and late initiation of treatment contributes to poor outcomes13.

The overall objective of this study is to ascertain the effectiveness and costs of a simplified
severe sepsis protocol in severe sepsis patients and to assess methods for diagnosing
tuberculosis in HIV positive patients with severe sepsis. The study is greatly strengthened
by lessons learned during the original SSSP pilot study and by existing
partnershipsbetween Vanderbilt University, the University of Zambia, School of Medicine,
and the University Teaching Hospital. The far-reaching goal of this research is to improve
sepsis care and outcomes at UTH and throughout the region.




                                                5
Simplified Severe Sepsis Protocol-2 (SSSP-2): A Randomized Controlled Trial of a Bundled
Intervention for Severe Sepsis in Zambia
PI: Andrews, Ben                      Protocol version: 1.0                      4-May-2012
LITERATURE REVIEW AND PRELIMINARY DATA
Overview
Despite expanding ART coverage in sub-Saharan Africa, early mortality after starting
treatment remains high. Studies of HIV positive patients initiating ART in Senegal and
Uganda found sepsis to be the leading cause of death11,12. Quality improvement audit data
of 332 deaths in the Department of Internal Medicine at UTH in Zambia (unpublished, Table
1) show that sepsis, tuberculosis, and meningitis are the leading causes of in-hospital death
and disproportionately affect those who are HIV positive.

A high case fatality rate contributes to the high disease burden of severe sepsis worldwide.
In-hospital mortality rates have ranged from 17 to 45% in randomized controlled trials 14-16.
In one Ugandan study, inpatient mortality was 23.7%, with a total 30-day mortality of 43%11.
In Zambia, Dr. Sophie Chimese’s unpublished M.Med dissertation, entitled Aetiology and
Outcome of Patients Presenting with Septicaemia at UTH, found 46 (50.5%) of 91 severe
sepsis patients died in the hospital.

Yet, although sepsis is a prominent cause of morbidity and mortality in the region, few
studies have described it in detail. High HIV prevalence and other social and epidemiologic
factors raise questions about generalizability of many treatments proven effective in the
West17,18. Even when confidence exists regarding optimum treatment, treatment protocols
are

Table 1. Causes of death in Internal Medicine Department at UTH




notably absent, and best practices aren’t always adhered to. In the United States and
Europe, early antibiotics19, recombinant activated protein C 15, corticosteroids20, low tidal
volume mechanical ventilation21, and a protocol of early intravenous fluids with
vasopressors, blood transfusion, and inotropes 14 have improved survival in patients with
severe sepsis (all except corticosteroids) or refractory septic shock (corticosteroids). In
Africa, however, even the simplest of these interventions are at times underutilized. The
Simplified Severe Sepsis Protocol will focus on 4 evidence-based interventions: early
aggressive fluid resuscitation, dopamine for patients in septic shock, early blood cultures
and antibiotics, and blood transfusion in anaemic patients.

                                                    6
Simplified Severe Sepsis Protocol-2 (SSSP-2): A Randomized Controlled Trial of a Bundled
Intervention for Severe Sepsis in Zambia
PI: Andrews, Ben                      Protocol version: 1.0                      4-May-2012

Early aggressive fluid resuscitation: In 2001, Rivers et al. demonstrated that a protocol
of intensive hemodynamic monitoring linked with aggressive fluids, vasopressors,
dobutamine and blood transfusion, led to a 15% absolute reduction in mortality in septic
patients with elevated lactate levels or septic shock 14. Although increased fluid
administration was not a specified part of the intervention, one observed difference between
the two groups that may have contributed to the improved outcomes was the amount of
fluid administered in the first six hours (mean of 5.0 liters in intervention group vs. 3.5 liters
in controls). The ongoing PROCESS study is seeking to find if less expensive, less
complicated protocols could provide similar benefits in an American setting22. The limited
data on severe sepsis in sub-Saharan Africa show that insufficient amounts of IV fluids are
administered to septic patients. In a national referral hospital in Uganda, Jacob et al. found
that only 35% of patients with sepsis and hypotension received one or more liters of fluid in
the first six hours11. Only 32% of patients received antibiotics within one hour. In
Livingstone, Zambia, Theodosis et al. observed that only 7% of patients with sepsis and
hypotension had appropriate and timely orders written for fluids and antibiotics 12. These
findings are consistent with observations at UTH, where 84.2% of patients received ≤ 1
Litre of fluid in the first 6 hours of admission (Chimese, unpublished). A follow-up study by
Jacob, et al., in Uganda has shown a considerable improvement in outcomes just by
increasing the intravenous fluid administration, but that study had some design flaws,
including confounders inherent to before-after studies23.

Peripherally infused dopamine for patients in septic shock: Standard of care for septic
shock in developed countries involves the use of vasopressors infused through central
venous catheters9. In Zambia, dopamine is the only available vasopressor, and its
availability is mainly restricted to UTH, the central referral hospital. Because of the dearth of
central venous catheters in Zambia, dopamine, when used, is typically infused through a
peripheral IV catheter. This method is known to lead to occasional infiltration of the
subcutaneous tissue and, rarely, limb ischemia 24, although these complications have not
been reported in this setting.

Blood cultures and antibiotics: Jacob et al. found that only 32% of septic patients in
Uganda received antibiotics within the first hour of hospitalization11. The numbers at UTH
are almost identical (28.6%) (Chimese, unpublished) This contrasts with recommendations
from a Canadian study that showed that each hour of delay in appropriate antibiotic
treatment raises the mortality by an additional 7.6% in patients with septic shock 19.
Although culture yields at UTH have anecdotally been low, Dr. Chimese, found that, after
excluding probable contaminants, 36 (22.3%) of 161 septic patients had positive aerobic
blood cultures.

Blood transfusion: In developed countries, target hemoglobin level in septic patients
varies based on the stage of treatment. Early goal-directed therapy protocols recommend
transfusing to a hematocrit ≥ 30 g/dL if central venous oxygen saturation is < 70% in the
first 6 hours of treatment14. Outside of the initial resuscitation, however, a transfusion
threshold hemoglobin of ≥ 7 g/dL is as safe as a hemoglobin of ≥10 g/dL25. In sub-Saharan
Africa, severe anemia is common among patients with severe sepsis11. In HIV positive
patients, anemia of chronic inflammation, frequently associated with tuberculosis, is the
primary culprit26.


                                                7
Simplified Severe Sepsis Protocol-2 (SSSP-2): A Randomized Controlled Trial of a Bundled
Intervention for Severe Sepsis in Zambia
PI: Andrews, Ben                      Protocol version: 1.0                      4-May-2012
Jugular venous examination: The SSSP protocol will require the assessment of patients’
jugular venous pressure to guide fluid administration. Evidence suggests that it is possible
to accurately identify raised JVP of greater than 3 cm above the sternal angle 27. This level
(approximately 8 cm above the right atrium) equates to a CVP of 10-11 mm Hg, which
approximates the target CVP for Rivers’ early goal-directed therapy protocol14.

Tuberculosis-associated severe sepsis: More than 40% of the world’s 34 million people
living with HIV are also co-infected with tuberculosis (TB)28. 380,000 die from HIV-
associated TB each year, the majority in sub-Saharan Africa29. Thus, it comes as no
surprise that the leading cause of severe sepsis in the region is tuberculosis 11. Among
severe sepsis patients with an identified etiology, 32% have tuberculosis mycobacteremia11,
yet the subject of TB sepsis has been mostly ignored since the days when it was described
as sepsis tuberculosis gravissima 30. As previously mentioned, evidence-based guidelines
place an emphasis on obtaining blood cultures and initiating broad-spectrum antibiotics
within one hour of diagnosis. However, mycobacterial blood cultures are generally not
helpful in acute care, taking an average of 5 weeks to turn positive 31. Furthermore, many
patients with severe sepsis are too sick to produce an adequate sputum sample for smear
and culture, and selecting patients for empiric anti-tuberculous therapy is still a matter of
controversy32,33. This is a serious problem when one considers that a delay in initiation of
therapy for hospitalized patients with tuberculosis more than triples the odds of inpatient
death13. New diagnostic methods, most notably the Cepheid Xpert MTB/RIF device, might
provide the answer to this problem, but their effectiveness and affordability remain untested
in many clinical settings34,35.

Diagnostic scores for tuberculosis: Several clinical scoring systems exist for identifying
hospitalized patients with high likelihood of tuberculosis 36. However, most of those systems
have been developed in high-income countries among patients with moderate severity of
illness and with the expressed intent of isolating contagious patients from other hospital
inpatients. Many existing models use variables that are irrelevant to the African setting, e.g.
foreign place of birth or tuberculin skin test result.36,37 At least one score included as a
variable a positive acid-fast sputum smear38, which is already the standard for clinical
diagnosis of tuberculosis in most of Africa.

On physical exam, lymphadenopathy has been the predictive variable most often
assessed39. Wasting and pallor due to anaemia are frequently encountered in tuberculosis
patients in sub-Saharan Africa, but these have not been incorporated into any of the
previous diagnostic scores. More commonly, models are heavily reliant on chest x-ray
findings36,40. Most common findings associated with tuberculosis have been cavitary
lesions, upper lobe infiltrates, miliary pattern, and pleural effusions 36,40,41. X-ray-based
models can also be of use in sub-Saharan Africa, but it is often difficult to transport severe
sepsis patients for x-rays, so a non-radiographic scoring system would be most useful.

Xpert MTB/RIF system: The WHO recently endorsed a fully automated DNA test, the
Cepheid Xpert MTB/RIF (“Xpert”), for rapid diagnosis of pulmonary TB, including multi-drug
resistant TB, from sputum samples42. Preliminary results from testing extrapulmonary
specimens (excluding blood) with the Xpert further support the idea that it could play a
significant role in early diagnosis of hospitalized patients with severe sepsis 43. However, the
most appropriate testing strategy needs to be determined.



                                               8
Simplified Severe Sepsis Protocol-2 (SSSP-2): A Randomized Controlled Trial of a Bundled
Intervention for Severe Sepsis in Zambia
PI: Andrews, Ben                      Protocol version: 1.0                      4-May-2012
Urine Lipoarabinomannan (LAM): Lipoarabinomannan is a glycolipid portion of the
mycobacterial cell wall of Mycobacterium tuberculosis. LAM is frequently secreted in the
urine in patients with tuberculosis infection and poor cellular immunity but rarely in patients
with intact immune systems44,45. Thus, it is an attractive diagnostic test for HIV positive
patients with suspected tuberculous meningititis or other disseminated tuberculosis46. The
high rate of positive TB blood cultures in the original SSSP study and the long incubation
times suggest that a rapid surrogate for TB blood cultures, such as urine LAM, might be
clinically useful for diagnosing disseminated TB in septic patients.

Blood lactate and sepsis: Circulating lactic acid levels are an indicator of tissue
hypoperfusion in severe sepsis. A hand-held portable whole blood lactate device has been
validated with results correlating well with standard laboratory serum lactate
measurements47,48. In a Ugandan study of septic patients, increasing portable whole blood
lactate levels correlated with an increased risk of in-hospital mortality49. International
guidelines utilize a lactate level above 4 mmol/L as an indication for initiating protocolized
fluid resuscitation9. Other studies have incorporated lactate levels to guide protocolized
decision points50. In the absence of lactate measurement, the SSSP pilot study and other
studies in the region51 have had difficulties in identifying normotensive septic patients with
tissue hypoperfusion who would be most likely to benefit from aggressive volume
resuscitation.

SSSP study: In the first SSSP study, we have enrolled 89 participants with severe sepsis
and randomized them in a 1:1 fashion to either the sepsis protocol or usual care. Baseline
characteristics are shown in Table 2. Primary outcome data is available for 74 participants.
Patients in the intervention group have received a mean of 2.7 litres of IV fluid during the 6
hour active management period as compared with 1.8 liters of fluid in the usual care group
(p<0.001). There has been no difference between the intervention and control groups for
the primary outcome of in-hospital mortality (68.6% vs. 64.1%). Of note, in-hospital mortality
has been 92% (11 of 12) among participants with respiratory rate (RR) greater than 40 and
a measured oxygen saturation (SpO2) less than 90%.

Table 2. Baseline characteristics in SSSP participants
                                               Total          SSSP               Control
                                               n=76           n=36               n=44
Age, mean (SD)                                 35.1 (10.0)    35.2 (10.6)        35.1 (9.6)
HIV positive                                   57 (75)        26 (72)            31 (78)
Organ dysfunction
 Confusion                                     49 (65)        22 (61)            27 (68)
 Respiratory Rate > 40                         29 (38)        15 (42)            14 (35)
 SBP < 90 or MAP < 65                          26 (34)        13 (36)            13 (33)
Metabolic acidosis*                            29 (38)        16 (44)            13 (33)
Acidotic or hypotensive                        40 (53)        23 (64)            17 (42)
* Metabolic acidosis defined as bicarbonate level less than 20 mmol/L
SBP = Systolic blood pressure; MAP = Mean arterial pressure

The study investigators, in consultation with experts in the field of sepsis, have decided to
close the original SSSP study in order to open the new SSSP-2 study with inclusion criteria
limited to those with evidence of tissue hypoperfusion who are the most likely to benefit
from the SSSP intervention. Because of their extremely high risk of death with or without

                                               9
Simplified Severe Sepsis Protocol-2 (SSSP-2): A Randomized Controlled Trial of a Bundled
Intervention for Severe Sepsis in Zambia
PI: Andrews, Ben                      Protocol version: 1.0                      4-May-2012
fluid administration, the new study will exclude participants with hypoxemic respiratory
failure (RR > 40 and SpO2 <90%).

JUSTIFICATION OF THE STUDY
Management of sepsis in sub-Saharan Africa has been highly variable and often sub-
optimal. Bundled treatment protocols improve outcomes in severe sepsis and have become
standard of care throughout the developed world. However, most of these protocols are too
expensive or cumbersome for use in sub-Saharan Africa. This study will assess the
performance and costs of a simple treatment protocol that was developed in Zambia by the
investigators. The Simplified Severe Sepsis Protocol (SSSP) implemented the highest-yield
components of American protocols, devoid of their most costly aspects, such as invasive
central venous pressure and oxygen monitoring in a heterogeneous population of patients
with severe sepsis, with organ dysfunction most likely owing to a variety of
pathophysiological mechanisms. SSSP-2 will evaluate the effectiveness of the SSSP
treatment protocol in a group of patients who are most likely to benefit from this
intervention, namely those with hypotension.

Additionally, although tuberculosis has been recognized as a leading cause of severe
sepsis in HIV positive patients in Africa, TB-associated severe sepsis has not been
described as a distinct entity in the era of HIV. TB-associated severe sepsis is also difficult
to diagnose in a timely manner. Rapid clinical and laboratory-based diagnostic algorithms
are needed in order to facilitate timely diagnosis and treatment. Combined data from SSSP-
2 and the original SSSP will be used in developing a clinical diagnostic score to identify TB-
associated severe sepsis in severely ill patients, the patient population most in need of
early appropriate therapy. The results of the combined SSSP-1 and SSSP-2 studies will
provide new evidence that could be incorporated into a novel diagnostic algorithm for
identifying severe sepsis patients with a high probability of TB and to select the appropriate
confirmatory diagnostics.




                                              10
Simplified Severe Sepsis Protocol-2 (SSSP-2): A Randomized Controlled Trial of a Bundled
Intervention for Severe Sepsis in Zambia
PI: Andrews, Ben                      Protocol version: 1.0                      4-May-2012
OBJECTIVES
General objective
The overall objective of this study is to ascertain the effectiveness and costs of a simplified
severe sepsis protocol in patients with severe sepsis and evidence of tissue hypoperfusion,
and to assess methods for diagnosing tuberculosis in HIV positive patients with severe
sepsis.

Specific Aims
  1. To assess the impact on survival of a simplified evidence-based protocol for severe
      sepsis with evidence of tissue hypoperfusion
  2. To evaluate the cost of implementation for a simplified severe sepsis protocol
  3. To develop a clinical diagnostic score for identifying tuberculosis in HIV positive
      patients with severe sepsis
  4. To assess the performance of the Xpert TB/RIF rapid PCR system for diagnosing
      tuberculosis in HIV positive patients with severe sepsis

HYPOTHESIS
The Simplified Severe Sepsis Protocol will significantly decrease in-hospital mortality in
patients with severe sepsis.




                                              11
Simplified Severe Sepsis Protocol-2 (SSSP-2): A Randomized Controlled Trial of a Bundled
Intervention for Severe Sepsis in Zambia
PI: Andrews, Ben                      Protocol version: 1.0                      4-May-2012
METHODOLOGY

Specific Aim 1: SSSP Effectiveness
Study design: Randomized control trial.

Setting: The University Teaching Hospital in Lusaka, Zambia is a 1400-bed tertiary care
hospital that serves as the national referral hospital. It is also a major primary care hospital
for the city of Lusaka. Medical patients are initially brought to a 50-bed intake unit called the
Adult Filter Clinic (AFC) that includes a three bed Emergency Room (ER) (Figure 1).
Patients spend up to 24 hours in AFC for stabilization and triage.

Patients:
Patients who are
18 years old and
above       will  be
eligible          for
enrolment if they
meet the criteria
for severe sepsis
upon presentation
                            1
to       the     ER.
Additionally, patients who manifest severe sepsis after arrival will be eligible if they have
been in AFC for less than 24 hours and are within 4 hours of first meeting SIRS criteria
(item 2 below).
In this study, severe sepsis will be defined as the presence of all 3 of the following:
      1) infection suspected by the treating physician
      2) 2 or more of the following SIRS criteria:
       - Heart rate >90/min                   --Respiratory rate >20/min
       - Temperature ≥ 38° C or < 36° C --White blood count > 12,000 or < 4,000/μL
      3) 1 of the following:
       - Systolic blood pressure (SBP) ≤ 90 mm Hg
       - Mean arterial blood pressure (MAP) ≤ 65 mm Hg
Patients will be excluded if they have a gastrointestinal bleed in the absence of fever; or
require immediate surgery. Due to limited ICU capacity and high mortality rate, we will also
exclude septic patients with hypoxemic respiratory failure defined as a respiratory rate
greater than 40/min with oxygen saturation less than 90%. Patients will be excluded if they
have suspected congestive heart failure exacerbation, end-stage renal disease, or raised
jugular venous pressure (JVP) at baseline. Prisoners who are currently incarcerated will
also be excluded.
Patient recruitment and consent
Patients will only be approached for study enrolment after they have been seen by an ER
doctor in AFC and usual care has been initiated (see Figure 2). This will ensure that the
consent procedure does not delay initiation of care for the patient. Patients with sepsis who
agree to be screened by the study nurse will have vital signs recorded and a finger-stick to
check the whole blood lactate level.




                                               12
Simplified Severe Sepsis Protocol-2 (SSSP-2): A Randomized Controlled Trial of a Bundled
Intervention for Severe Sepsis in Zambia
PI: Andrews, Ben                      Protocol version: 1.0                      4-May-2012
Those patients who meet eligibility
criteria and agree to consent will be
enrolled. If a patient lacks decision-
making capacity, then the patient’s
next of kin will be asked to consent,
as per Zambian law. Baseline labs
will be drawn on all patients, and
then patients will be randomized to
either usual care or SSSP. Patient
randomization will be performed by
administrative staff using sealed
opaque envelopes.
Patients will be blinded with regards
to group assignment. Treatment for
control patients will be as ordered
by the ER doctors prior to
enrolment. These patients will
receive non-protocolized care but
may still benefit from more frequent
assessments provided by the study
nurses.

Simplified Severe Sepsis
Protocol
Table 3 describes the components
                                                      Figure 2. Enrolment flow diagram
of the SSSP. Prior to initiation of
the study, the research nurse and student research assistant(s), will be trained regarding
the identification of severe sepsis, the clinical assessment of jugular venous pressure,
calculating MAP, calculating dopamine infusion rates, and the SSSP protocol itself. ER
doctors and nurses not involved in the study will be blinded to the contents of the protocol.

All patients in the SSSP group will receive an initial 2 litre bolus of normal saline or lactated
Ringer’s within 1 hour of assessment. After the initial bolus, an investigator or study nurse
will evaluate the patient’s JVP, using a level and a ruler. Patients who do not have raised
JVP will receive an additional 2 litres of fluid over 4 hours, for a total of 4 litres in the first 5-
6 hours in the hospital. Patients may receive fluids at a faster rate at the discretion of the
primary admitting physicians. Within one hour of the recognition of severe sepsis, all
patients will have aerobic and mycobacterial blood cultures and malaria blood smears sent
to the lab, and empiric broad-spectrum antibiotics initiated. Additional antimicrobials, such
as anti- tuberculous therapy, empiric anti-malarials, or high-dose sulfamethoxazole/
trimethoprim, may be used at the discretion of the treating physicians. If a patient’s MAP
remains below 65mm Hg after the initial 2 liter bolus of fluids, then a dopamine infusion will
be initiated at a starting rate of 10 mcg/kg/min. Those receiving dopamine will be monitored
for dopamine-related complications. Whenever hourly blood pressures are checked and
dopamine infusions are titrated, the IV site will be examined for signs of extravasation.
Dopamine infusion will be titrated to the lowest possible rate to maintain a MAP ≥65 mmHg.



                                                  13
Simplified Severe Sepsis Protocol-2 (SSSP-2): A Randomized Controlled Trial of a Bundled
Intervention for Severe Sepsis in Zambia
PI: Andrews, Ben                      Protocol version: 1.0                      4-May-2012

Table 3. Simplified Severe Sepsis Protocol
Intervention            Simplified Severe Sepsis Protocol
IV fluids               2 liters in first hour*
                        2 additional liters in next 4 hours*
Blood cultures          Drawn within 1 hour of arrival
Malaria blood smear     Drawn within 1 hour of arrival
Antibiotics             Antibiotic selection by ER physician;
                        1st dose after culture, within 1 hour of arrival/sepsis diagnosis

Dopamine                     If MAP < 65 after 2 liter bolus, then add dopamine and titrate to
                             MAP ≥65
Blood transfusion            Will recommend blood transfusion, when available for Hb < 7 g/dL
                             or severe pallor
* Jugular venous pressure (JVP) examined after 1 st 2 liters;
  if JVP is raised, then fluid is held.
MAP – mean arterial pressure, Hb – hemoglobin, Hct – hematocrit


Evaluation of Patients: Baseline characteristics including demographic information and
information on pre-existing conditions, organ function, markers of disease severity,
infection, and hematologic and other laboratory tests will be assessed within 24 hours of
enrolment. The following laboratory tests will be collected as part of routine care (standard
of care):
        Biochemistry: Urea, Na, K (“U and E’s”), Creatinine, Bilirubin, AST, ALT, Albumin
                       (“LFT’s”),
        Hematology: Full blood count with differential
        Rapid test: HIV ELISA (opt out)
        Virology: CD4 (if HIV positive)
        Aerobic blood culture
        Malaria parasite smear, in selected patients
The study staff will record the results of these routine labs as they are collected and
analyzed in the course of patient care. The study will also provide resources to ensure that
these investigations are completed in the event of shortages.

The study staff will also obtain blood for the following laboratory tests that are not part of
routine clinical care:
       Serum bicarbonate level (4 mL)
       One tube of blood (4 mL) will be drawn at baseline and an additional tube (4mL) will
            be drawn 48 hours later. This blood will be stored for further immunologic testing.
       Mycobacterial blood cultures (5 mL) will be drawn in HIV positive patients.
       Additional tuberculosis laboratory testing is described under Aims 3 and 4 below.

A total of 12 mL of blood in HIV negative patients and 17 mL of blood in HIV positive
patients will be drawn in addition to the standard clinical investigations. Specific patient
consent will be requested to refrigerate and store any specimens for future studies. Banked
blood will be stored with de-identified coded labels, and UNZA REC approval will be
required for any subsequent usage. Specimens will be stored for a maximum of 5 years.



                                              14
Simplified Severe Sepsis Protocol-2 (SSSP-2): A Randomized Controlled Trial of a Bundled
Intervention for Severe Sepsis in Zambia
PI: Andrews, Ben                      Protocol version: 1.0                      4-May-2012
Information about medical management throughout hospitalization—such as antibiotics
selection, fluid administration, ICU admission, hemodialysis, and mechanical ventilation—
and final clinical diagnosis will be recorded. UTH admits approximately 4-5 patients with
severe sepsis every day. We will try to enrol all eligible patients for consent using the
combined workforce of the study nurses, student research assistant(s), and investigators.
The estimated time necessary to identify the patient as eligible, obtain informed consent,
and collect the clinically available data (including hospital treatments and outcome) as well
as the study data is approximately 4 hours per patient. Patient’s address and a telephone
number of the patient and at least one relative will be obtained from patients. Patients will
be telephoned to ascertain vital status. Study personnel will visit the homes of patients who
are unreachable by telephone.

Outcomes
Primary outcome: Primary outcome will be in-hospital all-cause mortality.
Secondary outcomes:
 Mortality: The following mortality outcomes will also be assessed:
     - 28-day all-cause mortality
     - In-hospital all-cause mortality adjusted for disease severity score (SAPS3)
     - 28-day all-cause mortality adjusted for disease severity score (SAPS3)
 Time to death
 Process measures: The following process measures will be used to assess adherence to
   protocol, impact of various protocol components and resource utilization:
     - Volume of IVF’s administered within 6, 24, and 72 hours
     - Proportion of patients receiving antibiotics within 1 hour; cultures within 1 hour; and
       blood transfusion
     - Proportion of patients whose antibiotics were changed based on culture results
     - Total amount of dopamine used
 Adverse events: Study personnel will monitor patients for dopamine extravasation,
   dopamine-associated tissue ischemia or necrosis, iatrogenic pulmonary oedema, and
   transfusion-related adverse events.

Sample size: The SSSP study has found a 65% in-hospital mortality rate among patients
with severe sepsis. We use this figure as the expected mortality in the control group.
Assuming a two-sided type I error rate of 5 percent, and a power of 80 percent, a sample
size of 212 patients will permit the detection of a 20 percent absolute reduction in in-
hospital mortality. The patients will be randomized on a 1:1 basis.
We will enrol consecutive patients who meet the inclusion criteria and consent. However,
budget limitations may limit enrolment to daytime hours Monday through Friday. If this
limitation occurs, REC and IRB will be notified. We expect to complete enrolment in 6-8
months.

Analysis: Continuous variables will be presented as mean and standard deviation and will
be analyzed using t-test and analysis of variance. Categorical variables will be presented as
proportions and will be analyzed using chi-squared, Fisher exact, or Mantel-Haenszel tests.
Secondary analyses will include adjusted hazard ratios, adjusting for disease severity using
quartiles of the Simplified Acute Physiology Score -3 (SAPS3)52. Time to event analysis will
include Kaplan Meier plot, log rank test, and Cox proportional hazards modelling. P value of
less than 0.05 will be considered statistic-ally significant.



                                              15
Simplified Severe Sepsis Protocol-2 (SSSP-2): A Randomized Controlled Trial of a Bundled
Intervention for Severe Sepsis in Zambia
PI: Andrews, Ben                      Protocol version: 1.0                      4-May-2012
Secondary analyses will also assess the primary outcome in relevant subgroups (Table 4)
to see if particular groups benefit most from intervention. Due to the small sample sizes in
this study, these subgroup analyses will be used primarily for hypothesis generation.
Table 4. Aim 1 Subgroups for hypothesis generation
Subgroup               Rationale
HIV+ vs. HIV-          HIV+ pts more likely to have undiagnosed, untreated mycobacterial
                       or fungal infections that may attenuate benefits of SSSP
GCS 13-15 vs. 9- GCS is a strong predictor of mortality in sepsis patients in Zambia.
12 vs. <9              To assess whether SSSP effect varies based on GCS stratification
Hb ≥7 vs. <7           To assess benefit of protocol among patients with severe anaemia
Above vs. below     To assess whether the effect varies according to disease severity
median SAPS
Lactate <4.0 vs.    To assess whether the benefit varies according to lactate
≥4.0                stratification

Mantel-Haenszel will be used, and p values for subgroup analyses will be considered
significant if they are less than 0.01 (=0.05/5 subgroups). Because the management in the
standard care arm may “drift” towards SSSP interventions over time, we will perform an “as-
treated” analysis comparing patients who received ≥ 3 litres of fluid in the first 6 hours of
enrolment versus those who received < 3 litres, adjusting for SAPS3 score and site of
infection using multivariable logistic regression. Furthermore, we will assess the utility of
blood cultures based on how frequently antibiotics regimens were changed when culture
results became available.




                                             16
Simplified Severe Sepsis Protocol-2 (SSSP-2): A Randomized Controlled Trial of a Bundled
Intervention for Severe Sepsis in Zambia
PI: Andrews, Ben                      Protocol version: 1.0                      4-May-2012
Specific Aim 2: Budget Impact Analysis of SSSP
To assess the costs of the SSSP, we will conduct a budget impact analysis to be used for
real-world implementation decisions. A budget impact analysis is an important tool “to
estimate the financial consequences of adoption and diffusion of a new health-care
intervention within a specific health-care setting or system context given inevitable resource
constraints”53. Budget impact analyses are less complex and less generalizable than full
scale cost effectiveness analyses, but they are extremely useful for estimating the potential
implementation costs for the site where the study was performed. Our study will follow the
guidelines for conducting budget impact analyses as proposed by the International Society
for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes Research (ISPOR) 53. Dr. Ted Speroff, health
economics expert from Vanderbilt University will provide technical assistance for this
portion of the study.
Model description: The budget impact model will be an Excel-based spreadsheet with
primary inputs from the direct measurements of the above interventional study
supplemented with micro cost analysis of detailed costs measured for a randomly selected
subset of patients.
Perspective: Zambian Ministry of Health (government payer that supports UTH)
Scenarios to be compared: Current usual care (including low-level utilization of IVF’s,
dopamine, blood cultures, antibiotics, and blood transfusion) versus SSSP-guided care
Population: Patients presenting to the University Teaching Hospital with severe sepsis; this
will be calculated by counting the number of patients enrolled and estimating the
percentage of eligible patients who were not enrolled due to timing of presentation and/or
refusing consent. The total number of patients meeting severe sepsis criteria upon
presentation to UTH will then be calculated and divided by the number of months to obtain
monthly average.
Time horizon: One month, disaggregated into in-hospital and post-discharge periods

Costing: Methods for deriving budget impact estimates
Only direct costs will be measured. Costs will be divided into startup costs, consisting of
time and materials utilized in training personnel regarding the identification and protocolized
treatment of severe sepsis, plus the difference in steady-state costs between current
practice and SSSP-driven practice. Startup costs are only applicable for the SSSP
scenario.
        Total cost = Startup cost + Inpatient (SSSP steady-state costs - Current steady state costs)
                    + Cost due to adverse events (i.e. treatment side effects) + Post-discharge costs
The difference in steady state costs will be calculated as the incremental increase of the
sum of component steady state costs:
        Steady state costs = Cost(clinical personnel’s time) + Cost(lab) + Cost(culture) + Cost(ICU)*
                             + Cost(Hospital bed) + Cost(supplies) + Cost(hemodialysis) +
                             Cost(fluids) + Cost(medications) + Cost(Blood transfusion)
                              * ICU costs include costs associated with mechanical ventilator use
        Post-discharge costs = Cost (clinical personnel’s time + clinic overhead + medications)
Costs of steady-state components will be further subdivided. Lab costs are shown as an
example:
        Cost(lab) = Cost(blood draw + transport + lab fixed cost + lab variable cost + documentation
cost)




                                                     17
Simplified Severe Sepsis Protocol-2 (SSSP-2): A Randomized Controlled Trial of a Bundled
Intervention for Severe Sepsis in Zambia
PI: Andrews, Ben                      Protocol version: 1.0                      4-May-2012
Data sources
Unit costs and overhead costs will all be obtained directly from the hospital administration.
Table 5 illustrates the source of information regarding resource utilization and unit costs.

            Table 5. Sources for utilization estimates and unit costs




  * IV fluids will be measured directly for the first 72 hours. Fluid utilization will be measured for the entire length of
   stay in patients selected for microcost observation.


Hours of training and number and rank of those in attendance at training sessions will be
recorded for determining startup costs. Blood cultures and transfusions will be measured
directly, as will days in the hospital, in the ICU, and on hemodialysis. Detailed inpatient data
will be collected for 10 randomly selected patients in the pre-implementation group and 10
patients in the post-implementation group, using a micro cost accounting method. The
average values will be used as the representative cost/utilization, and the range will be
used for sensitivity analysis. Micro cost accounting will also assess blood bank and
laboratory utilization of personnel time, screening tests, preservatives, supplies, and
reagents with respect to each unit of blood or each individual laboratory test. If a treatment-
related adverse event occurs, it will trigger a detailed listing of related costs incurred.

    In 10 patients from each group who survive to discharge, medical records will be
reviewed 4-6 weeks after discharge. These patients will be evenly divided into those with
disability at discharge and those without. We will assess the number of patients’ follow-up
visits at the UTH outpatient clinic and the medications prescribed at those visits, plus any
re-hospitalizations. Hospital financial data will be used to assess the per-visit and

                                                              18
Simplified Severe Sepsis Protocol-2 (SSSP-2): A Randomized Controlled Trial of a Bundled
Intervention for Severe Sepsis in Zambia
PI: Andrews, Ben                      Protocol version: 1.0                      4-May-2012
subsidized outpatient prescription costs to the hospital. Patients discharged from UTH are
generally followed up in the UTH-based clinic, so this method is expected to reflect
accurate post-discharge healthcare utilization. Microcosting data from the original SSSP
study may also be utilized in the costing model.

Sensitivity Analysis: Multivariable sensitivity analysis will be performed varying the
quantity of resources used within directly-measured ranges for variables measured by
microcost observation, and within the 95% confidence intervals for variables measured in
all patients. Results will be presented in a Tornado diagram.
Discounting: ISPOR does not recommend discounting because budget impact analyses
represent financial streams over time, and budget holders are “concerned with the cost
budgets will realize each year rather than the value, in present-day terms, of any costs
brought about through the reimbursement of a new therapy.” 54
Limitations: The time horizon for this analysis is limited to one month due to financial
constraints. Costs incurred beyond that time frame, resulting from increased survival and
disability, will not be accounted for.




                                            19
Simplified Severe Sepsis Protocol-2 (SSSP-2): A Randomized Controlled Trial of a Bundled
Intervention for Severe Sepsis in Zambia
PI: Andrews, Ben                      Protocol version: 1.0                      4-May-2012
Specific Aims 3 and 4: Tuberculosis-associated severe sepsis
Specific Aims 3 and 4 will evaluate the HIV positive cohort of patients enrolled in the
combined SSSP and SSSP-2 studies. We will implement intensive tuberculosis case-
finding measures to identify tuberculosis in severe sepsis patients and to assess the
performance of diagnostic approaches. In addition to the evaluation and investigations
described in Aim 1, the following TB-specific investigations will be performed:

TB-specific Laboratory Investigations
For all HIV positive patients, mycobacterial blood cultures (5 mL, as noted under Specific
Aim 1) will be collected in BACTEC Myco/F Lytic culture bottles (Becton Dickinson, Sparks,
Maryland, USA) on the day of admission and will be incubated in a BACTEC machine.
Positive cultures will have confirmatory PCR line probe testing to differentiate TB vs non-
tuberculous mycobacteria. All patients will also have urine collected and sent for culture,
lipoarabinomannan, and Xpert testing. For each patient who is capable of producing
sputum, 3 samples will be collected over a 2-day period (2 spot and 1 morning), consistent
with the standard of care. 3 samples will undergo standard Ziehl-Neelsen staining. One
sample will be cultured and also tested using the Xpert system.
         We will collect specimens from the following procedures, if performed as a part of
routine care by the treating physician: lumbar puncture (cerebrospinal fluid, CSF),
bronchoscopy (lavage washings), thoracentesis (pleural fluid), and paracentesis (ascites
fluid). Collected specimens will be sent for culture and for Xpert testing. All specimens other
than blood will be cultured on a Bactec MGIT (Mycobaterial Growth Indicator Tube) 960
System. Positive cultures will undergo confirmatory TB PCR testing. All TB-specific
investigations will be performed at one of the following sites:
       - UTH microbiology lab
       - UTH tuberculosis lab
       - CIDRZ research lab in Kalingalinga, Lusaka, Zambia
All specimens under Specific Aims 3 and 4 may be subject to freezing and storage for up to
5 years in order to allow for testing of newer tuberculosis diagnostics. REC and IRB
approval will be sought prior to any testing not specified above.

Outcomes
Primary outcome for Aims 3 and 4: culture-confirmed tuberculosis sepsis based on a
positive TB culture from any site.

Secondary outcomes for Aim 4:
    - Xpert positive test from any site
    - Tuberculosis blood culture positivity
    - Time to positive culture from any site.

Analysis
Sample Size
The parent SSSP study will enrol 342 HIV positive and negative patients. With an HIV
prevalence of 68% among admitted sepsis patients, we expect to enroll 233 for this TBASS
sub-study. For a TB prevalence of 20% in our cohort, we will be powered to detect
sensitivity of Xpert within the range 70% +/- 13% and specificity of 95% +/- 3%.
Clinical diagnostic score
The following variables will be recorded on admission to be included as candidate variables
for the clinical diagnostic score:
From the patient’s history:

                                                20
Simplified Severe Sepsis Protocol-2 (SSSP-2): A Randomized Controlled Trial of a Bundled
Intervention for Severe Sepsis in Zambia
PI: Andrews, Ben                       Protocol version: 1.0                     4-May-2012
    x Cough of any duration – A recent study suggested that chronic cough was
        insensitive for TB and any cough should be worked up further for TB 55.
    x Duration of symptoms greater than 2 weeks – This will include cough, fever, night
        sweats, or weight loss.
    x Prior history of TB treatment – History of treatment will include patients treated for
        smear positive as well as smear negative TB.
From the physical exam:
    x Signs of wasting – These will be the clinician’s subjective assessment based on
        temporal wasting, sunken eyes, and limb and trunk muscle wasting. We will also
        compare the clinician’s assessment with an administered Subjective General
        Assessment, a well validated method for identifying malnutrition in critically ill
        patients56.
    x Pallor – Pallor will be used as a surrogate of anemia in the initial assessment.
    x Lymphadenopathy
The primary model will not include laboratory investigations because laboratory results are
not usually available immediately. However, 2 laboratory investigations will be incorporated
into a secondary model:
    x Hemoglobin
    x CD4 count
Candidate variables will be incorporated into a multivariable logistic regression model with
the primary outcome variable of culture confirmed tuberculosis. The model will be repeated
in a step-wise fashion after the variable with the highest p value >0.05 is removed each
iteration until only those with p<0.05 are included. A simple numbering system will then be
devised based on the magnitude and direction of the model coefficients. The sensitivity and
specificity of various cut-offs will then be assessed and an ROC curve created. Area under
the curve (AUC) will be calculated using Open Epi (open source, developed by CDC). If
more than 4 variables remain in the final model, then every possible 4-variable combination
will be assessed and sensitivities, specificities, and AUC’s will be compared. This process
will be repeated for the second model inclusive of the haemoglobin and CD4 count
variables, both variables will be categorized a priori.

Post hoc analyses of SSSP and SSSP-2 data may investigate the associations of any of
the following variables with the outcomes of suspected or confirmed tuberculosis: urea, Na,
K, creatinine, bilirubin, AST, ALT, albumin, full blood count components, CD4 count, any of
the collected physical exam variables, prior history of tuberculosis, and/or chest x-ray
results.


Xpert assessment
Sensitivity, specificity, AUC, and kappa value will be calculated for the Xpert. For the
primary analysis, positive Xpert test from any site will be considered a test positive, and
positive culture from any site will be a true positive. We will repeat the same analysis using
Xpert results from individual sites against positive culture from any site in order to assess
performance of individual Xpert tests for TB-associated severe sepsis. Finally, we will
compare Xpert tests from individual sites against cultures from those same sites to
determine performance of Xpert for a particular body fluid.




                                             21
Simplified Severe Sepsis Protocol-2 (SSSP-2): A Randomized Controlled Trial of a Bundled
Intervention for Severe Sepsis in Zambia
PI: Andrews, Ben                      Protocol version: 1.0                      4-May-2012
ETHICAL CONSIDERATIONS

Confidentiality: Confidentiality of the patients’ medical records will be maintained by using
password-protected secure databases to store patient information. Medical charts will be
kept in a locked office with access limited to only the study investigators and study staff
involved in data collection and data entry.

Ethics approval and consent: Approval for the study protocol will initially be sought from
the Biomedical Research Ethics Committee of University of Zambia. After approval is
granted, the investigators will apply for exemption from Vanderbilt University’s Institutional
Review Board. The research project will take place only after the above review boards have
met and approved the study.

When study candidates are identified, details will be carefully discussed with them, and they
will be asked to read and sign the consent form. If a patient does not have the capacity to
consent, then the next of kin as defined by Zambian law will be asked to consent. If the
participant or next of kin are unable to read, the process for consenting illiterate
participants, as defined by UNZA REC, will be followed. The consent form may be
administered in English or either of two local languages, Nyanja or Bemba.

Patients’ participation in this study is voluntary, and patients may withdraw from the study at
any time without giving reason for withdrawal. Patients who withdraw will receive usual care
for their medical condition, and they will still receive the results of any study investigations
that have already been tested.

Risks to the subjects: The individual components of the Simplified Severe Sepsis Protocol
are all currently used at UTH in a non-protocolized manner. This includes the use of
dopamine via peripheral infusion, the standard method of administration in Zambia.
Therefore, we do not expect this study to pose an increased risk to patients. However, the
investigators recognize that even with the current standard of care, peripheral dopamine
infusion carries some risk, include IV infiltration and subsequent tissue hypoperfusion. Also,
increased IV fluid resuscitation carries with it a mild risk of iatrogenic pulmonary edema.

Protection against risks: The study protocol includes close monitoring for adverse events
by a trained research nurse. Details of monitoring procedures are described in the
RESEARCH STRATEGY. Because this close level of monitoring will likely lead to earlier
identification of events than in standard care, the investigators believe that enrollment in
this study will provide a net reduction, rather than increase, in risk.

Potential benefits to the subjects and others: Availability of laboratory tests in Zambia is
frequently limited to those who can afford the lab fees. The investigators have budgeted to
pay the standard lab fees for subjects who enroll in this study who cannot afford standard
tests. Any relevant tests that are not part of standard care will also be funded by the study,
and these results will be made available to the treating physicians to facilitate improved
patient care. In both the control and intervention arms, a study nurse will ensure that
doctor’s orders are carried out in a timely fashion. The increased attention of the study
nurse in the first day of admission may also be considered a benefit to the patients.
Importance of the knowledge to be gained: If the Simplified Severe Sepsis Protocol
(SSSP) is proven effective, then its implementation at UTH and other hospitals in sub-

                                              22
Simplified Severe Sepsis Protocol-2 (SSSP-2): A Randomized Controlled Trial of a Bundled
Intervention for Severe Sepsis in Zambia
PI: Andrews, Ben                      Protocol version: 1.0                      4-May-2012
Saharan Africa could result in significantly decreased hospital mortality due to sepsis.
Improvements in tuberculosis diagnosis, either via a diagnostic scoring system or Xpert
MTB/RIF, could further improve survival. Our findings could have a significant impact on
clinical care and healthcare funding decisions throughout the region.
Data and Safety Monitoring Plan: A Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) will be
appointed to monitor progress of the evaluation with respect to enrollment, follow-up, drop-
outs, adverse events, and interim analyses. The DSMB will consist of Dr. Phil Seidenberg
from Boston University and the Zambian Center for Applied Health Research and
Development (ZCAHRD); Dr. Selestine Nzala, Assistant Dean - Postgraduate of the
University of Zambia School of Medicine (UNZA SOM); Dr. Cosmas Zyaambo, Lecturer in
the Department of Public Health at UNZA SOM; and Prof. Sten Vermund, Director of the
Vanderbilt Institute for Global Health (VIGH). Biostatistical aspects of the interim analysis
will be coordinated by Dr. Zyaambo. The DSMB will review safety and mortality data at the
midpoint of patient enrolment and will notify the PI and the co-investigators about any safety
concerns that need to be addressed. If the DSMB feels that these concerns are not
addressed sufficiently, then DMSB will have the authority to report findings directly to the
Vanderbilt IRB and UNZA REC. At the time of midpoint interim analysis, the study may be
stopped if one arm is significantly superior to the other, with a p value of <0.001, or at the
discretion of the DSMB.

SSSP and SSSP-2: The SSSP study is currently ongoing with a target enrolment of 342
participants. However, the SSSP study will close enrolment prior to the initiation of SSSP -2.
Because of the smaller sample size for SSSP-2, the combined enrolment of SSSP and
SSSP-2 will not exceed the original SSSP sample size projection of 342 participants. The
informed consent form for SSSP-2 is the same as the informed consent currently
used for SSSP, with minor modifications.




                                              23
Simplified Severe Sepsis Protocol-2 (SSSP-2): A Randomized Controlled Trial of a Bundled
Intervention for Severe Sepsis in Zambia
PI: Andrews, Ben                      Protocol version: 1.0                      4-May-2012

STUDY BUDGET
                                                                       US Dollars                    Kwacha
Personnel
    Study nurse, full time x 10 months                                       $8,000                40,000,000
    Study nurses, part time x 10 months                                       2,000                10,000,000
Supplies
   Dopamine                                                                 $   300              1,500,000
   Additional IV fluids                                                         500              2,500,000
   Laboratory investigations (excluding TB)                                   8,000             40,000,000
   Tuberculosis-related labs                                                 20,000            100,000,000
   Portable lactate meter and strips                                          5,000             25,000,000
   Printing and stationary                                                      500              2,500,000
Other
   Ethical approval fees                                                       500               2,500,000
   Telephone air time                                                          600               3,000,000
   Transportation                                                              400               2,000,000
Total                                                                      $45,800             229,000,000


TIMELINE
                                                   2012                                            2013

                               May   June   July   Aug   Sep   Oct   Nov   Dec   Jan   Feb   Mar   Apr    May   Jun   July


Ethical review and revisions
Participant enrolment
Data collection
Interim safety analysis
Data cleaning
Data analysis
Manuscript preparation




                                                               24
Simplified Severe Sepsis Protocol-2 (SSSP-2): A Randomized Controlled Trial of a Bundled
Intervention for Severe Sepsis in Zambia
PI: Andrews, Ben                      Protocol version: 1.0                      4-May-2012
FUNDING SOURCES
Fogarty International Center of the National Institutes of Health (granted)
Other funding pending for TB diagnostics portions

DECLARATION OF CONFLICT OF INTEREST
None of the investigators has any conflict of interest to report.




                                               25
Simplified Severe Sepsis Protocol-2 (SSSP-2): A Randomized Controlled Trial of a Bundled
Intervention for Severe Sepsis in Zambia
PI: Andrews, Ben                      Protocol version: 1.0                      4-May-2012
REFERENCES

   1. UNAIDS and WHO. 09 AIDS Epidemic Update. UNAIDS. November 2009.
   2. Lawn SD, Harries AD, Anglaret, et al. Early mortality among adults accessing
       antiretroviral treatment programmes in sub-Saharan Africa. AIDS 2008, 22:1897-
       1908.
   3. Stringer JS, Zulu I, Levy J, et al. Rapid scale-up of antiretroviral therapy at primary
       care sites in Zambia: feasibility and early outcomes. JAMA 2006, 296:782-793.
   4. Braitstein P, Brinkhof MW, Dabis F, et al. Mortality of HIV-1-infected patients in the
       first year of antiretroviral therapy: comparison between low-income and high-income
       countries. Lancet 2006, 367:817–824.
   5. Etard JF, Ndiaye I, Thierry-Mieg M, et al. Mortality and causes of death in adults
       receiving highly active antiretroviral therapy in Senegal: a 7-year cohort study. AIDS
       2006, 20:1181-1189
   6. Castelnuovo B, Manabe YC, Kiragga A, et al. Cause-specific mortality and the
       contribution of immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome in the first 3 years after
       antiretroviral therapy initiation in an urbal African cohort. CID 2009, 49:965-972.
   7. Silva DR, Menegotto DM, Schulz LF, et al. Mortality among patients with tuberculosis
       requiring intensive care: a retrospective cohort study. BMC Infectious Diseases
       2010, 10:54.
   8. Jean SS, Fang CT, Shau WY, et al. Cryptococcaemia: clinical features and
       prognostic factors. Q J Med 2002, 95:511-518.
   9. Dellinger RP, Levy MM, Carlet JM, et al. Surviving Sepsis Campaign: International
       guidelines for management of severe sepsis and septic shock: 2008. Intensive Care
       Med 2008, 34:17-60.
   10. Puskarich MA, Marchick MR, Kline JA, et al. One year mortality of patients treated
       with an emergency department based early goal directed therapy protocol for severe
       sepsis and septic shock: a before and after study. Critical Care 2009, 13:R167.
   11. Jacob ST, Moore CC, Banura P, et al. Severe sepsis in two Ugandan Hospitals: a
       prospective observational study of management and outcomes in a predominantly
       HIV-1 infected population. PLoS One 2009, 4:e7782.
   12. Theodosis C, Brenner S. Framework and rationale for studying sepsis in high HIV
       seroprevalence resource poor settings: the Livingstone General Hospital experience.
       AIDS 2006 - XVI International AIDS Conference: Abstract no. CDB1279.
   13. Greenaway C, Menzies D, Fanning A, Grewal R, Yuan L, FitzGerald JM. Delay in
       diagnosis among hospitalized patients with active tuberculosis--predictors and
       outcomes. Am J Respir Crit Care Med 2002, 165:927-33.
   14. Rivers E, Nguyen B, Havstad S, et al. Early goal-directed therapy in the treatment of
       severe sepsis and septic shock. New England Journal of Medicine 2001, 345:1368-
       1377.
   15. Bernard GR, Vincent JL, Laterre PF, et al. Efficacy and safety of recombinant human
       activated protein C for severe sepsis. New England Journal of Medicine 2001,
       344:699-709.
   16. Jones AE, Shapiro NI, Trzeciak S, et al., Lactate Clearance vs Central Venous
       Oxygen Saturation as Goals of Early Sepsis Therapy: A Randomized Clinical Trial.
       JAMA 2010, 303:739-746.
   17. Scarborough M, Gordon SB, Whitty CJM, et al. Corticosteroids for bacterial
       meningitis in adults in sub-Saharan Africa. New England Journal of Medicine 2007,
       357:2441-50.


                                              26
Simplified Severe Sepsis Protocol-2 (SSSP-2): A Randomized Controlled Trial of a Bundled
Intervention for Severe Sepsis in Zambia
PI: Andrews, Ben                        Protocol version: 1.0                       4-May-2012
    18. Andrews B. Surviving sepsis in high HIV prevalence settings. Medical Journal of
        Zambia 2010, 37:104-110.
    19. Kumar A, Roberts D, Wood KE, et al. Duration of hypotension before initiation of
        effective antimicrobial therapy is the critical determinant of survival in human septic
        shock. Critical Care Medicine 2006, 34:1589-96.
    20. Annane D, Sebille V, Charpentier C, et al. Effect of treatment with low doses of
        hydrocortisone and fludrocortisone on mortality in patients with septic shock. JAMA
        2002, 288:862-871.
    21. The Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome Network. Ventilation with lower tidal
        volumes as compared with traditional tidal volumes for acute lung injury and the
        acute respiratory distress syndrome. New England Journal of Medicine 2000,
        342:1301-1308.
    22. Clinical Trials.gov. Protocolized Care for Early Septic Shock (ProCESS) -
        NCT00510835. Available at: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT00510835.
        Accessed Aug. 24, 2010.
    23. Jacob ST, Banura P, Babigumira J, at al. Enhanced Fluid Resuscitation Improves
        Survival in Hospitalized Ugandan Patients with Severe Sepsis. IDSA 2010 Annual
        Meeting. Abstract, Oct. 22, 2010.
    24. Dugger B. Peripheral dopamine infusions—Are they worth the risk of infiltration?
        Journal of Intravenous Nursing 1997, 20:95-99.
    25. Hebert PC, Wells G, Blajchman MA, et al. A multicenter, randomized, controlled
        clinical trial of transfusion requirements in critical care. New England Journal of
        Medicine 1999, 340:409-417.
    26. Lewis DK, Whitty CJM, Walsh AL. Treatable factors associated with severe anaemia
        in adults admitted to medical wards in Blantyre, Malawi, an area of high HIV
        seroprevalence. Transactions of the Royal Soc of Trop Med and Hygiene 2005,
        99:561-567.
    27. McGee SR. Physical examination of venous pressure: a critical review. Am Heart J
        1998, 136:10-18.
    28. World Health Organization. Global tuberculosis control: epidemiology, strategy,
        financing. WHO report 2009. Geneva, Switzerland: WHO; 2009.
    29. World Health Organization, Global Tuberculosis Control. A Short Update to the 2009
        Report, WHO, Geneva, Switzerland, 2009.
    30. Rubin ZA, Leonard MK, and Martin GS. Brief Report: Tuberculosis Sepsis and
        Activated Protein C. Am J Med Sciences 2006, 332:48-50.
    31. Esteban J, de Gorgolas M, Santos-O'Connor F, et al. Mycobacterium tuberculosis
        bacteremia in a university hospital. Int J Tuberc Lung Dis 2001, 5:763-8.
    32. Holtz TH, Kabera G, Mthiyane T, et al. Use of a WHO-recommended algorithm to
        reduce mortality in seriously ill patients with HIV infection and smear-negative
        pulmonary tuberculosis in South Africa: an observational cohort study. Lancet 2011.
        Published Online April 21, 2011. DOI:10.1016/S1473-3099(11)70057-3.
    33. Harries AD, Zachariah R, Corbett EL, et al. The HIV-associated tuberculosis
        epidemic—when will we act? Lancet 2010, 375:1906–19.
    34. Anandaiah A, Dheda K, Keane J, et al. Novel Developments in the Epidemic of
        Human Immunodeficiency Virus and Tuberculosis Coinfection. Am J Respir Crit Care
        Med 2011.183:987–997.
    35. Boehme CC, Nabeta P, Hillemann D,et al. Rapid Molecular Detection of
        Tuberculosis and Rifampin Resistance. N Engl J Med 2010, 363:1005-15.



                                              27
Simplified Severe Sepsis Protocol-2 (SSSP-2): A Randomized Controlled Trial of a Bundled
Intervention for Severe Sepsis in Zambia
PI: Andrews, Ben                      Protocol version: 1.0                       4-May-2012
    36. Wisnivesky JP, Serebrisky D, Moore C, et al. Validity of clinical prediction rules for
        isolating inpatients with suspected tuberculosis. A systematic review. J Gen Intern
        Med 2005, 20:947-52.
    37. Rakoczy KS, Cohen SH, Nguyen HH, Derivation and validation of a clinical
        prediction score for isolation of inpatients with suspected pulmonary tuberculosis.
        Infect Control Hosp Epidemiol 2008, 29:927-32.
    38. Mylotte JM, Rodgers J, Fassl M, Seibel K, Vacanti A. Derivation and validation of a
        pulmonary tuberculosis prediction model. Infect Control Hosp Epidemiol 1997,
        18:554-60.
    39. Kanaya AM, Glidden DV, Chambers HF. Identifying pulmonary tuberculosis in
        patients with negative sputum smear results. Chest 2001, 120:349-55.
    40. Soto A, Solari L, Díaz J, et al. Validation of a Clinical-Radiographic Score to Assess
        the Probability of Pulmonary Tuberculosis in Suspect Patients with Negative Sputum
        Smears. PLoS One 2011, 6: e18486.
    41. Geng E, Kreiswirth B, Burzynski J, Schluger NW. Clinical and radiographic correlates
        of primary and reactivation tuberculosis: a molecular epidemiology study. JAMA
        2005, 293:2740-5.
    42. WHO. Tuberculosis diagnostics automated DNA test: endorsement and
        recommendations. 2010. http://www.stoptb.org/wg/gli/assets/ documents/
        xpert_factsheet.pdf (accessed April 28, 2011).
    43. Hillemann D, Rüsch-Gerdes S, Boehme C, et al. Rapid Molecular Detection of
        Extrapulmonary Tuberculosis by the Automated GeneXpert MTB/RIF System. J Clin
        Microbiol 2011, 49:1202-5.
    44. Shah M, Variava E, Holmes CB, et al. Diagnostic accuracy of a urine
        lipoarabinomannan test for tuberculosis in hospitalized patients in a high HIV
        prevalence setting. J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr. 2009, 52:145.
    45. Reither K, Saathoff E, Jung J, et al. Low sensitivity of a urine LAM-ELISA in the
        diagnosis of pulmonary tuberculosis. BMC Infectious Diseases 2009, 9:141.
    46. Patel VB, Bhigjee AI, Paruk HF, et al. Utility of a novel lipoarabinomannan assay for
        the diagnosis of tuberculous meningitis in a resource-poor high-HIV prevalence
        setting. Cerebrospinal Fluid Research 2009, 6:13.
    47. Bishop D. Evaluation of the Accusport lactate analyser. Int J Sports Med 2001,
        22:525–30.
    48. Boldt J, Kumle B, Suttner S, Haisch G. Point-of-care (POC) testing of lactate in the
        intensive care patient: accuracy, reliability, and costs of different measurement
        systems. Acta Anaesthesiol Scand 2001, 45:194–9.
    49. Moore CC, Jacob ST, Pinkerton R, et al. Point-of-Care Lactate Testing Predicts
        Mortality of Severe Sepsis in a Predominantly HIV Type 1–Infected Patient
        Population in Uganda. Clinical Infectious Diseases 2008, 46:215–22.
    50. Jones AE; Shapiro NI; Trzeciak S, et al. Lactate Clearance vs Central Venous
        Oxygen Saturation as Goals of Early Sepsis Therapy A Randomized Clinical Trial.
        JAMA 2010, 303:739-746.
    51. Maitland K, Kiguli S, Opoka RO, et al. Mortality after Fluid Bolus in African Children
        with Severe Infection. N Engl J Med 2011, 364:2483-95.
    52. Moreno RP, Metnitz PG, Almeida E, et al. SAPS 3--From evaluation of the patient to
        evaluation of the intensive care unit. Part 2: Development of a prognostic model for
        hospital mortality at ICU admission. Intensive Care Med 2005, 31:1345-55.

                                             28
Simplified Severe Sepsis Protocol-2 (SSSP-2): A Randomized Controlled Trial of a Bundled
Intervention for Severe Sepsis in Zambia
PI: Andrews, Ben                      Protocol version: 1.0                      4-May-2012
    53. Mauskopf JA, Sullivan SD, Annemans A, et al. Principles of good practice for budget
        impact analysis: Report of the ISPOR task force on good research practices—budget
        impact analysis. Value in Health 2007, 10:336-347.
    54. Orlewska E, Gulacsi L. Budget-impact analyses: A critical review of published
        studies. Pharmacogenomics 2009, 27:807-827.
    55. Cain KP, M.D., McCarthy KD, Heilig CM, et al. An Algorithm for Tuberculosis
        Screening and Diagnosis in People with HIV. N Engl J Med 2010, 362:707-16.
    56. Sheean PM, Peterson SJ, Gurka DP, Braunschweig CA. Nutrition assessment: the
        reproducibility of subjective global assessment in patients requiring mechanical
        ventilation. Eur J Clin Nutr 2010, 64:1358-64.




                                            29
