appropriate daily dose was chosen by the clinician in the range of at 62.5 to 250mcg based on

patient size and any known renal impairment (default 125mcg). Twice this amount was given as a

loading dose on the first day of treatment only, and thereafter the patient was asked to continue on

the usual daily dose until review at 3-4 weeks when uptitration was considered based on the

response in terms of heart rate and symptoms. A serum digoxin level was taken to ensure safety.

In the beta-blocker arm, bisoprolol was commenced at a dose of 1.25 to 15mg once-daily,

determined by the clinician in the context of any prior beta-blocker use (default 2.5mg). Bisoprolol

was chosen as the beta-blocker of choice as this is the most widely prescribed in the UK; in patients

randomized to bisoprolol but with known intolerance, an alternate beta-blocker was acceptable

(nebivolol, carvedilol or metoprolol). There were no patients currently on digoxin at the time of

commencement. Uptitration by the clinician took account of response in terms of heart rate and

symptoms; for patients with adverse events, switching to an alternate beta-blocker was acceptable.



In both groups, clinicians and patients had the option of additional uptitration visits as needed to

control heart rate and symptoms from AF. In the digoxin group, the mean number of visits was 1.4

(SD 0.6; range 1-3). In the beta-blocker group, the mean was 1.5 visits (SD 0.9; range 1-6).

Combination therapy was acceptable in patients with a persistent heart rate >100 beats/min

according to a protocol flowchart.3 After uptitration was completed, a 24-hour ambulatory ECG

was performed to confirm adequate rate-control and ensure safety with regards to pauses or any

heart block; any suggested changes needed in rate-control treatment were communicated to Primary

Care physicians, who were thereafter responsible for drug prescription.




Quality of life tools and scoring

Quality of life (QoL) questionnaires were completed on paper forms in the following order: EQ-5D-

5L, SF36 then AFEQT. These were then transferred to the Birmingham Clinical Trials Unit, who

independently uploaded QoL data into the case report database. Scoring was performed by the


© 2020 American Medical Association. All rights reserved.
