      BASIS                                                                           Number:2017YFC1307900


975   Appendix Table 3. National Institute of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS)

976       The NIHSS is an ordinal hierarchical scale to evaluate the severity of stroke by assessing a
977   patient’s performance. Scores range from 0 to 42, with higher scores indicating a more severe
978   deficit. Administer stroke scale items in the order listed. Record performance in each category after
979   each subscale exam. Do not go back and change scores. Follow directions provided for each exam
980   technique. Scores should reflect what the patient does, not what the clinician thinks the patient can
981   do. The clinician should record answers while administering the exam and work quickly. Except
982   where indicated, the patient should not be coached (i.e. repeated requests to patient to make a
983   special effort).

           Instructions                                                Scale definition
                                                                       0 = Alert; keenly responsive.
                                                                       1 = Not alert; but arousable by minor
           1a. Level of consciousness. The investigator must           stimulation to obey, answer, or respond.
           choose a response if a full evaluation is prevented by      2 = Not alert; required repeated
           such obstacles as an endotracheal tube, language barrier,   stimulation to attend, or is obtunded and
           orotracheal trauma/bandages. A 3 is scored only if the      requires strong or painful stimulation to
           patient makes no movement (other than reflexive             make movements (not stereotyped).
           posturing) in response to noxious stimulation.              3 = Responds only with reflex motor or
                                                                       autonomic        effects     or    totally
                                                                       unresponsive, flaccid and areflexic.
           1b. LOC Questions: The patient is asked the month and
           his/her age. The answer must be correct – there is not
           partial credit for being close. Phasic and stuporous
           patients who do not comprehend the questions will score
                                                                       0 = Answers both questions correctly.
           2. Patients unable to speak because of endotracheal
                                                                       1 = Answers one question correctly.
           intubation, orotracheal trauma, severe dysarthria from
                                                                       2 = Answers neither question correctly.
           any cause, language barrier, or any other problem not
           secondary to aphasia are given a 1. It is important that
           only the initial answer be graded and that the examiners
           not “help” the patient with verbal or non-verbal clues.
           1c. LOC Commands: The patient is asked to open and
           close the eyes and then to grip and release the
           non-paretic hand. Substitute another one step command
           if the hand cannot be used. Credit is given if an
           unequivocal attempt is made but not completed due to        0 = Performs both tasks correctly.
           weakness. If the patient does not respond to command,       1 = Performs one task correctly.
           the task should be demonstrated to him or her               2 = Performs neither task correctly.
           (pantomime), and the result scored (i.e. follows none,
           one or two commands). Patients with trauma,
           amputation, or other physical impediments should be
           given suitable one-step commands. Only the first
                                                       53
