BASIS                                                                           Number:2017YFC1307900


    attempt is scored.
    2. Best Gaze: Only horizontal eye movements will be
    tested. Voluntary or reflexive (oculocephalic) eye
    movements will be scored, but caloric testing is not
    done. If the patient has a conjugate deviation of the eyes
                                                                 0= Normal.
    that can be overcome by voluntary or reflexive activity,
                                                                 1= Partial gaze palsy; gaze is abnormal
    the score will be a 1. If a patient has an isolated
                                                                 in one or both eyes, but forced deviation
    peripheral nerve paresis (CN III, IV or VI), score a 1.
                                                                 or total gaze paresis is not present.
    Gaze is testable in all aphasic patients. Patients with
                                                                 2= Forced deviation; or total gaze paresis
    ocular trauma, bandages, preexisting blindness, or other
                                                                 not overcome by the oculocephalic
    disorder of visual acuity or fields should be tested with
                                                                 maneuver.
    reflexive movements, and a choice made by the
    investigator. Establishing eye contact and then moving
    about the patient from side to side will occasionally
    clarify the presence of a partial gaze palsy.
    3. Visual: Visual fields (upper and lower quadrants) are
    tested by confrontation, using finger counting or visual
    threat, as appropriate. Patients may be encouraged, but
    if they look at the side of the moving finger
    appropriately, this can be scored as normal. If there is     0= No visual loss.
    unilateral blindness or enucleation, visual fields in the    1= Partial hemianopia.
    remaining eye are scored. Score 1 only if a clear-cut        2= Complete hemianopia.
    asymmetry, including quadrantanopia, is found. If            3= Bilateral hemianopia (blind including
    patient is blind from any cause, score 3.                    cortical blindness)
    Double simultaneous stimulation is performed in this
    case.
    If there is extinction, the patient receives a 1, and the
    results are used to respond to item 11.
                                                                 0 = Normal symmetrical movements.
    4. Facial palsy: Ask or use pantomime to encourage the
                                                                 1= Minor paralysis (flattened nasolabial
    patient to show teeth or raise eyebrows and close eyes.
                                                                 fold, asymmetry on smiling)
    Score symmetry of grimace in response to noxious
                                                                 2= Partial paralysis (total or near-total
    stimuli in the poorly response or non-comprehending
                                                                 paralysis of lower face)
    patient. If facial trauma/bandages, orotracheal tube, tape
                                                                 3= Complete paralysis of one or both
    or other physical barriers obscure the face, these should
                                                                 sides (absence of facial movement in the
    be removed to the extent possible.
                                                                 upper and lower face).
                                                                 0= No drift; limb holds 90 (or 45)
    5. Motor arm: The limb is placed in the appropriate
                                                                 degrees for full 10 seconds.
    position: extend the arms (palms down) 90 degrees (if
                                                                 1= Drift; limb holds 90 (or 45) degrees,
    sitting) or 45 degrees (if supine). Drift is scored if the
                                                                 but drifts down before full 10 seconds;
    arm falls before 10 seconds. The aphasic patient is
                                                                 does not hit bed or other support.
    encouraged using urgency in the voice and pantomime,
                                                                 2= Some effort against gravity; limb
    but not noxious stimulation. Each limb is tested in turn,
                                                                 cannot get to or maintain (if cued) 90 (or
    beginning with the non-paretic arm. Only in the case of
                                                                 45) degrees, drifts down to bed, but has
    amputation or joint fusion at the shoulder, the examiner
                                                                 some effort against gravity.
    should record the score as untestable (UN), and clearly
                                                                 3= No effort against gravity; limb falls.
    write the explanation for this choice.
                                                                 4= No movement.
                                                 54
