BASIS

984

Number:2017YFC1307900

sections of the examination. For this scale item, the
patient is asked to describe what is happening in the
attached picture, to name the items on the attached
naming sheet and to read from the attached list of
sentences. Comprehension is judged from responses
here, as well as to all of the commands in the preceding
general neurological exam. If visual loss interferes with
the tests, ask the patient to identify objects placed in the
hand, repeat, and produce speech. The intubated patient
should be asked to write. The patient in a coma (item
1a=3) will automatically score 3 on this item. The
examiner must choose a score for the patient with stupor
or limited cooperation, but a score of 3 should be used
only if the patient is mute and follows no one-step
commands.

10. Dysarthria: If patient is thought to be normal, an
adequate sample of speech must be obtained by asking
patient to read or repeat words from the attached list. If
the patient has severe aphasia, the clarity of articulation
of spontaneous speech can be rated. Only if patient is
intubated or has other physical barriers to producing
speech, the examiner should record the score as
untestable (UN), and clearly write an explanation for
this choice. Do not tell the patient why he or she is
being tested.
11. Extinction and Inattention (formerly Neglect):
Sufficient information to identify neglect may be
obtained during the prior testing. If the patient has a
severe visual loss preventing visual double simultaneous
stimulation, and the cutaneous stimuli are normal, the
score is normal. If the patient has aphasia but does
appear to attend to both sides, the score is normal. The
presence of visual spatial neglect or anosagnosia may
also be taken as evidence of abnormality. Since the
abnormality is scored only if present, the item is never
untestable.

56

obvious loss of fluency or facility of
comprehension, without significant
limitation on ideas expressed or form of
expression. Reduction of speech and/or
comprehension, however, makes
conservation about provided materials
difficult or impossible. For example, in
conversation about provided materials,
examiner can identify picture or naming
card content from patient's response.
2= Severe aphasia; all communication is
through fragmentary expression; great
need for inference, questioning, and
guessing by the listener. Range of
information that can be exchanged is
limited; listener carries burden of
communication.
Examiner
cannot
identify materials provided from patient
response.
3 = Mute, global aphasia: no usable
speech or auditory comprehension.
0= Normal.
1= Mild-to-moderate dysarthria; patient
slurs at least some words and, at worst,
can be understood by some difficulty.
2= Severe dysarthria: patient's speech is
so slurred as to be unintelligible in the
absence of or out of proportion to any
dysphasia, or is mute/anarthric.
UN = Intubated or other physical barrier.
0= No abnormality.
1= Visual, tactile, auditory, spatial, or
personal inattention or extinction to
bilateral
simultaneous stimulation in one of the
sensory modalities.
2= Profound hemi-inattention or
extinction to more than one modality;
does not recognize own hand or orients
to only one side of space.

