BASIS

975

Number:2017YFC1307900

Appendix Table 3. National Institute of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS)

976

The NIHSS is an ordinal hierarchical scale to evaluate the severity of stroke by assessing a

977

patient’s performance. Scores range from 0 to 42, with higher scores indicating a more severe

978

deficit. Administer stroke scale items in the order listed. Record performance in each category after

979

each subscale exam. Do not go back and change scores. Follow directions provided for each exam

980

technique. Scores should reflect what the patient does, not what the clinician thinks the patient can

981

do. The clinician should record answers while administering the exam and work quickly. Except

982

where indicated, the patient should not be coached (i.e. repeated requests to patient to make a

983

special effort).
Instructions

1a. Level of consciousness. The investigator must
choose a response if a full evaluation is prevented by
such obstacles as an endotracheal tube, language barrier,
orotracheal trauma/bandages. A 3 is scored only if the
patient makes no movement (other than reflexive
posturing) in response to noxious stimulation.

1b. LOC Questions: The patient is asked the month and
his/her age. The answer must be correct – there is not
partial credit for being close. Phasic and stuporous
patients who do not comprehend the questions will score
2. Patients unable to speak because of endotracheal
intubation, orotracheal trauma, severe dysarthria from
any cause, language barrier, or any other problem not
secondary to aphasia are given a 1. It is important that
only the initial answer be graded and that the examiners
not “help” the patient with verbal or non-verbal clues.
1c. LOC Commands: The patient is asked to open and
close the eyes and then to grip and release the
non-paretic hand. Substitute another one step command
if the hand cannot be used. Credit is given if an
unequivocal attempt is made but not completed due to
weakness. If the patient does not respond to command,
the task should be demonstrated to him or her
(pantomime), and the result scored (i.e. follows none,
one or two commands). Patients with trauma,
amputation, or other physical impediments should be
given suitable one-step commands. Only the first
53

Scale definition
0 = Alert; keenly responsive.
1 = Not alert; but arousable by minor
stimulation to obey, answer, or respond.
2 = Not alert; required repeated
stimulation to attend, or is obtunded and
requires strong or painful stimulation to
make movements (not stereotyped).
3 = Responds only with reflex motor or
autonomic
effects
or
totally
unresponsive, flaccid and areflexic.

0 = Answers both questions correctly.
1 = Answers one question correctly.
2 = Answers neither question correctly.

0 = Performs both tasks correctly.
1 = Performs one task correctly.
2 = Performs neither task correctly.

