      BASIS                                                                             Number:2017YFC1307900


984       sections of the examination. For this scale item, the          obvious loss of fluency or facility of
          patient is asked to describe what is happening in the          comprehension, without significant
          attached picture, to name the items on the attached            limitation on ideas expressed or form of
          naming sheet and to read from the attached list of             expression. Reduction of speech and/or
          sentences. Comprehension is judged from responses              comprehension, however, makes
          here, as well as to all of the commands in the preceding       conservation about provided materials
          general neurological exam. If visual loss interferes with      difficult or impossible. For example, in
          the tests, ask the patient to identify objects placed in the   conversation about provided materials,
          hand, repeat, and produce speech. The intubated patient        examiner can identify picture or naming
          should be asked to write. The patient in a coma (item          card content from patient's response.
          1a=3) will automatically score 3 on this item. The             2= Severe aphasia; all communication is
          examiner must choose a score for the patient with stupor       through fragmentary expression; great
          or limited cooperation, but a score of 3 should be used        need for inference, questioning, and
          only if the patient is mute and follows no one-step            guessing by the listener. Range of
          commands.                                                      information that can be exchanged is
                                                                         limited; listener carries burden of
                                                                         communication.       Examiner      cannot
                                                                         identify materials provided from patient
                                                                         response.
                                                                         3 = Mute, global aphasia: no usable
                                                                         speech or auditory comprehension.
          10. Dysarthria: If patient is thought to be normal, an
                                                                         0= Normal.
          adequate sample of speech must be obtained by asking
                                                                         1= Mild-to-moderate dysarthria; patient
          patient to read or repeat words from the attached list. If
                                                                         slurs at least some words and, at worst,
          the patient has severe aphasia, the clarity of articulation
                                                                         can be understood by some difficulty.
          of spontaneous speech can be rated. Only if patient is
                                                                         2= Severe dysarthria: patient's speech is
          intubated or has other physical barriers to producing
                                                                         so slurred as to be unintelligible in the
          speech, the examiner should record the score as
                                                                         absence of or out of proportion to any
          untestable (UN), and clearly write an explanation for
                                                                         dysphasia, or is mute/anarthric.
          this choice. Do not tell the patient why he or she is
                                                                         UN = Intubated or other physical barrier.
          being tested.
          11. Extinction and Inattention (formerly Neglect):
                                                                         0= No abnormality.
          Sufficient information to identify neglect may be
                                                                         1= Visual, tactile, auditory, spatial, or
          obtained during the prior testing. If the patient has a
                                                                         personal inattention or extinction to
          severe visual loss preventing visual double simultaneous
                                                                         bilateral
          stimulation, and the cutaneous stimuli are normal, the
                                                                         simultaneous stimulation in one of the
          score is normal. If the patient has aphasia but does
                                                                         sensory modalities.
          appear to attend to both sides, the score is normal. The
                                                                         2= Profound hemi-inattention or
          presence of visual spatial neglect or anosagnosia may
                                                                         extinction to more than one modality;
          also be taken as evidence of abnormality. Since the
                                                                         does not recognize own hand or orients
          abnormality is scored only if present, the item is never
                                                                         to only one side of space.
          untestable.




                                                        56
