BASIS

Number:2017YFC1307900

6. Motor leg: The limb is placed in the appropriate
position:
hold the leg at 30 degrees (always tested supine). Drift
is scored if the leg falls before 5 seconds. The aphasic
patient is encouraged using urgency in the voice and
pantomime, but not noxious stimulation. Each limb is
tested in turn, beginning with the non-paretic leg. Only
in the case of amputation or joint fusion at the hip, the
examiner should record the score as untestable (UN),
and clearly write the explanation for this choice.

7. Limb ataxia: This item is aimed at finding evidence
of a unilateral cerebellar lesion. Test with eyes open. In
case of visual defect, ensure testing is done in intact
visual field. The finger-nose-finger and heel-shin tests
are performed on both sides, and ataxia is scored only if
present out of proportion to weakness. Ataxia is absent
in the patient who cannot understand or is paralyzed.
Only in the case of amputation or joint fusion, the
examiner should record the score as untestable (UN),
and clearly write the explanation for this choice. In case
of blindness, test by having the patient touch nose from
extended arm position.
8. Sensory: Sensation or grimace to pinprick when
tested, or withdrawal from noxious stimulus in the
obtunded or aphasic patient. Only sensory loss attributed
to stroke is scored as abnormal and the examiner should
test as many body areas (arms [not hands], legs, trunk,
face) as needed to accurately check for hemisensory
loss. A score of 2, 'severe or total sensory loss', should
only be given when a severe or total loss of sensation
can be clearly demonstrated. Stuporous and aphasic
patients will, therefore, probably score 1 or 0. The
patient with brainstem stroke who has bilateral loss of
sensation is scored 2. If the patient does not respond and
is quadriplegic, score 2.
Patients in a coma (item 1a=3) are automatically given a
2 on this item.
9. Best language: A great deal of information about
comprehension will be obtained during the preceding
55

UN = Amputation or joint fusion:
explain:
5a = Left Arm.
5b = Right arm.
0= No drift; leg holds 30-degree position
for full 5 seconds.
1= Drift; leg falls by the end of the
5-second period but does not hit bed.
2= Some effort against gravity; leg falls
to bed by 5 seconds, but has some effort
against gravity.
3= No effort against gravity; leg falls to
bed immediately.
4= No movement.
UN = Amputation or joint fusion:
explain:
6a. Left Leg
6b. Right Leg.

0= Absent.
1= Present in one limb.
2= Present in two limbs.
UN = Amputation or joint fusion:
explain:

0= Normal; no sensory loss.
1= Mild-to-moderate sensory loss;
patients feels pinprick is less sharp or is
dull on the affected side; or there is a
loss of superficial pain with pinprick, but
patient is aware of being touched.
2= Severe to total sensory loss; patient is
not aware of being touched in the face,
arm and leg.

0= No aphasia; normal
1= Mild-to-moderate

aphasia;

some

