BASIS

Number:2017YFC1307900

attempt is scored.
2. Best Gaze: Only horizontal eye movements will be
tested. Voluntary or reflexive (oculocephalic) eye
movements will be scored, but caloric testing is not
done. If the patient has a conjugate deviation of the eyes
that can be overcome by voluntary or reflexive activity,
the score will be a 1. If a patient has an isolated
peripheral nerve paresis (CN III, IV or VI), score a 1.
Gaze is testable in all aphasic patients. Patients with
ocular trauma, bandages, preexisting blindness, or other
disorder of visual acuity or fields should be tested with
reflexive movements, and a choice made by the
investigator. Establishing eye contact and then moving
about the patient from side to side will occasionally
clarify the presence of a partial gaze palsy.
3. Visual: Visual fields (upper and lower quadrants) are
tested by confrontation, using finger counting or visual
threat, as appropriate. Patients may be encouraged, but
if they look at the side of the moving finger
appropriately, this can be scored as normal. If there is
unilateral blindness or enucleation, visual fields in the
remaining eye are scored. Score 1 only if a clear-cut
asymmetry, including quadrantanopia, is found. If
patient is blind from any cause, score 3.
Double simultaneous stimulation is performed in this
case.
If there is extinction, the patient receives a 1, and the
results are used to respond to item 11.
4. Facial palsy: Ask or use pantomime to encourage the
patient to show teeth or raise eyebrows and close eyes.
Score symmetry of grimace in response to noxious
stimuli in the poorly response or non-comprehending
patient. If facial trauma/bandages, orotracheal tube, tape
or other physical barriers obscure the face, these should
be removed to the extent possible.
5. Motor arm: The limb is placed in the appropriate
position: extend the arms (palms down) 90 degrees (if
sitting) or 45 degrees (if supine). Drift is scored if the
arm falls before 10 seconds. The aphasic patient is
encouraged using urgency in the voice and pantomime,
but not noxious stimulation. Each limb is tested in turn,
beginning with the non-paretic arm. Only in the case of
amputation or joint fusion at the shoulder, the examiner
should record the score as untestable (UN), and clearly
write the explanation for this choice.
54

0= Normal.
1= Partial gaze palsy; gaze is abnormal
in one or both eyes, but forced deviation
or total gaze paresis is not present.
2= Forced deviation; or total gaze paresis
not overcome by the oculocephalic
maneuver.

0= No visual loss.
1= Partial hemianopia.
2= Complete hemianopia.
3= Bilateral hemianopia (blind including
cortical blindness)

0 = Normal symmetrical movements.
1= Minor paralysis (flattened nasolabial
fold, asymmetry on smiling)
2= Partial paralysis (total or near-total
paralysis of lower face)
3= Complete paralysis of one or both
sides (absence of facial movement in the
upper and lower face).
0= No drift; limb holds 90 (or 45)
degrees for full 10 seconds.
1= Drift; limb holds 90 (or 45) degrees,
but drifts down before full 10 seconds;
does not hit bed or other support.
2= Some effort against gravity; limb
cannot get to or maintain (if cued) 90 (or
45) degrees, drifts down to bed, but has
some effort against gravity.
3= No effort against gravity; limb falls.
4= No movement.

