Birmingham. At baseline, participants underwent 12-lead ECG then echocardiography to confirm

AF, followed by completion of patient-reported quality of life (QoL) questionnaires, clinical

assessment, supervised 6-minute walk distance (6MWD), and blood tests including NTpro B-type

natriuretic peptide (NTproBNP). Patients attended uptitration visits (see details below) in order to

attain a heart rate at rest of ≤100bpm, following guidance that lenient control of heart rate in AF is

preferential for most patients.1,2 All participants were reviewed at 6 and 12-months following their

baseline visit. Patient-reported QoL questionnaires were performed first to reduce bias, and were

self-administered except for those patients with visual or physical impediment. This was followed

by 12-lead ECG, clinical assessment, 6MWD and NTproBNP. Repeat echocardiography was only

performed at 12-months. During follow-up, the trial team took on responsibility for general

cardiovascular care, including testing and management of hypertension, coronary artery disease,

cardiomyopathy or heart failure according to usual practice.




Ethnicity data

Randomized patients were asked to self-declare their ethnicity based on the code list for the UK

2011 Census, with an option to decline available. UK National Health Service organizations are

mandated to use ethnic monitoring questions to monitor patients, service users and staff against the

protected characteristics of the Equality Act 2010.




Intervention details & uptitration

The Birmingham Clinical Trials Unit was responsible for the random allocation sequence and

assignment of the intervention, using the methods described in the main text. Drug therapy was

initiated the immediate day after their baseline visit.

In the digoxin arm, patients were commenced on low-dose digoxin once-daily, and any beta-

blockers were stopped. We used a simplified approach in these patients, whereby a clinically-



© 2020 American Medical Association. All rights reserved.
