CHU de Poitiers                                                                High-Wean Study


NB: The use of curative NIV to treat acute respiratory failure is not encouraged.

Interventional group: HFNC and NIV
NIV will be immediately initiated after planned extubation by prolonged sessions during the
48h following extubation: a first session of at least 4h, and then sessions of at least 2 hours,
during all the night (continuous NIV from 10 P.M. to 6 A.M.) if it is possible, for a total
duration of at least 12 hours a day. NIV will be performed with a ventilator dedicated for NIV
(ICU ventilator with NIV mode or NIV ventilator) in pressure-support ventilation using the
following ventilator settings:
    - Minimal pressure-support level of 5 cm H2O targeting a tidal volume around 6 to 8
        ml/kg,
    - A PEEP level between 5 and 10 cmH2O
    - A FiO2 adjusted to obtain adequate oxygenation (SpO2 ≥ 92%).
    - A pressure ramp slope between 0.1 and 0.2 s and a cycling off criterion at 25-30% of
        peak inspiratory flow
Between NIV sessions, HFNC will be delivered with a flow of 50 l/min and a FiO 2 to achieve
adequate oxygenation (SpO2 ≥ 92%).
The treatment including HFNC and NIV will be delivered for at least 48h after planned
extubation.
In the absence of ARF symptoms 48h after planned extubation, treatment can be stopped
and switched to standard oxygen therapy, after a weaning test using HFNC with a flow of
30L/min and FiO2 of 30%.
In case of occurrence or persistence of ARF symptoms at H48, NIV and HFNC will be
continued or re-initiated by periods of 24h until disparition of symptoms.
NB: The use of curative NIV to treat acute respiratory failure is not encouraged.

Duration of the treatment
In the 2 groups, patients will be treated for a minimal duration of 48h.
In the absence of ARF symptoms 48h after planned extubation, treatment can be stopped
and switched to standard oxygen therapy.
If acute respiratory failure (see ARF criteria below) appears or persists 48h after extubation,
the treatment will be continued for periods of 24 hours until complete respiratory recovery.

Acute respiratory failure will be defined by at least 2 criteria among the following:
   1. Respiratory rate > 25 breaths/min during at least 2 hours
   2. Clinical signs suggesting respiratory distress with increase in the work of breathing
       and/or respiratory fatigue including activation of accessory respiratory muscles,
   3. pH < 7.35 units with PaCO2 > 45 mm Hg
   4. Need for FiO2 ≥ 50% to maintain SpO2 ≥ 92% or PaO2/FiO2 ≤ 150 mmHg

If a patient present newly criteria for ARF beyond the first 48h after extubation, the
treatment will be resume according to initial randomization.


5.4 DEFINITIONS OF EVENTS AND CRITERIA OF EVALUATION
Reintubation will be performed according to one of the following criteria:
   1. Respiratory failure defined by at least 2 ARF criteria among the following: (1)
       Respiratory rate > 35/min, (2) Clinical signs suggesting respiratory distress with
                         th
Version n° 4 of the 17        of october 2017                                       Page 30 sur 49
CHU de Poitiers                                                             High-Wean Study


       increase in the work of breathing and/or respiratory fatigue including activation of
       accessory respiratory muscles, (3) Respiratory acidosis defined as pH < 7.35 units and
       PaCO2 > 45 mm Hg, (4) Need for FiO2 ≥ 80% to maintain SpO2 ≥ 92% or PaO2/FiO2 ≤
       100 mmHg.
    2. Hemodynamic failure defined as SAP < 90 mm Hg or MAP < 65 mm Hg with the need
       for vasopressors
    3. Neurological failure: altered consciousness (Glasgow <12) or agitation.
    4. Cardiac or respiratory arrest

In case of criteria for reintubation, the patient should be immediately intubated. However,
according to the clinical practice in each center, the patients can be treated by therapeutic
NIV in case of respiratory distress. In case of persistence of ARF criteria 2 hours after NIV
initiation, the patient should be immediately intubated and NIV should not be continued
beyond this delay of 2h.


5.5 PATIENT FOLLOW-UP AND DATA COLLECTION
At time of inclusion/extubation:
    x Age, gender, height, weight.
    x Severity score indicated by the SAPS II and the SOFA score
    x Underlying chronic cardiac or respiratory disease
    x Date and reason for admission
    x Date and reason for intubation
    x Duration of intubation prior to extubation
    x Classification according to the weaning difficulty: “simple weaning” refers to patients
       who succeed the first weaning test and are extubated without difficulty, “difficult
       weaning” to patients who fail the first weaning test and require up to 3 tests or 7
       days to achieve successful weaning, and “prolonged weaning” to patients who
       require more than 7 days of weaning after the first test.
    x Type of weaning trial performed before extubation: T-tube or pressure-support trial
    x Qualitative assessment of cough strength and amount of secretions
    x Steroids at before extubation
    x Vital parameters at the end of the weaning trial at the time of inclu: systolic and
       diastolic arterial pressure, heart rate, respiratory rate and SpO2.
    x Before and at the end of the weaning trial: Blood Gas and ventilatory parameters.

Post-Extubation H1:
   x Vital parameters: systolic and diastolic arterial pressure, heart rate, respiratory rate
       and SpO2.
   x Ventilatory settings and parameters: Gas flow and FiO2 using HFNC, pressure-
       support, PEEP, FiO2 and expiratory tidal volume with NIV.
   x Blood gas with HFNC in the control group and with NIV in the interventional group.
   x Criteria for acute respiratory failure and for reintubation
   x Need for reintubation




                         th
Version n° 4 of the 17        of october 2017                                   Page 31 sur 49
