eTable 19a

Randomized
Population

eTable 19b

Randomized
Population

eTable 18

Randomized
Population

eTable 19

Per protocol

eTable 20a

Randomized
Population

eTable 20b

Randomized
Population
Randomized
Population

eTable 20c
eTable 20d

Randomized
Population

Participants in the h-DPP group were referred to one of
four distinct DPP programs. While all programs followed
the CDC’s PreventT2 curriculum and fidelity standards,
some heterogeneity in delivery may exist. In this
sensitivity analysis, we clustered standard errors by DPP
site, treating the four Human-DPPs as distinct clusters
(clusters 1–4), and assigned all AI-DPP participants to a
fifth cluster.
To more granularly approximate potential groupings and
shared exposure, we created a variable denoting the site
and calendar month of randomization for each participant.
This variable (cluster ID) reflects the fact that Human-DPP
participants randomized in the same month and at the same
DPP site were more likely to be referred to the same
cohort, or AI-DPP participants randomized in the same
month were more likely to be exposed to the same app
version. In this sensitivity analysis, we clustered standard
errors by cluster ID.
Participants within the Primary Analysis cohort who had a
diabetes-range A1C during the 6-month and/or 12-month
visit were recorded. These participants were marked
having failed to achieve endpoint, regardless of body
weight and physical activity improvements. Our study did
not adjudicate the diagnosis of diabetes, which requires
two confirmatory tests.
Changes in continuous measures of secondary endpoints
(body weight, A1C) and weekly physical activity at 12
months.
Adverse events reported by category, grade, relatedness to
the participants’ assigned intervention, and by condition.
Tables reported number of participants with at least one
adverse event by study group, and frequency of adverse
events.
Adverse events reported by grade. The table reports
number of adverse events in each study group.
Adverse events reported by relatedness to the participants’
assigned intervention. The table reports number of adverse
events in each study group.
Adverse events reported by condition and grade and
assigned intervention.

© 2025 American Medical Association. All rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI
training, and similar technologies.

