BASIS

Number:2017YFC1307900

patient touch nose from extended arm position.
8. Sensory: Sensation or grimace to pinprick when
tested, or withdrawal from noxious stimulus in the
obtunded or aphasic patient. Only sensory loss
attributed to stroke is scored as abnormal and the
examiner should test as many body areas (arms [not
hands], legs, trunk, face) as needed to accurately
check for hemisensory loss. A score of 2, 'severe or
total sensory loss', should only be given when a severe
or total loss of sensation can be clearly demonstrated.
Stuporous and aphasic patients will, therefore,
probably score 1 or 0. The patient with brainstem
stroke who has bilateral loss of sensation is scored 2.
If the patient does not respond and is quadriplegic,
score 2.
Patients in a coma (item 1a=3) are automatically given
a 2 on this item.

9. Best language: A great deal of information about
comprehension will be obtained during the preceding
sections of the examination. For this scale item, the
patient is asked to describe what is happening in the
attached picture, to name the items on the attached
naming sheet and to read from the attached list of
sentences. Comprehension is judged from responses
here, as well as to all of the commands in the
preceding general neurological exam. If visual loss
interferes with the tests, ask the patient to identify
objects placed in the hand, repeat, and produce
speech. The intubated patient should be asked to
write. The patient in a coma (item 1a=3) will
automatically score 3 on this item. The examiner must
choose a score for the patient with stupor or limited
cooperation, but a score of 3 should be used only if
the patient is mute and follows no one-step
commands.

10. Dysarthria: If patient is thought to be normal, an
adequate sample of speech must be obtained by asking
patient to read or repeat words from the attached list.
119

0= Normal; no sensory loss.
1= Mild-to-moderate sensory loss;
patients feels pinprick is less sharp or is
dull on the affected side; or there is a
loss of superficial pain with pinprick,
but patient is aware of being touched.
2= Severe to total sensory loss; patient
is not aware of being touched in the
face, arm and leg.

0= No aphasia; normal
1= Mild-to-moderate aphasia; some
obvious loss of fluency or facility of
comprehension, without significant
limitation on ideas expressed or form
of expression. Reduction of speech
and/or comprehension, however, makes
conservation about provided materials
difficult or impossible. For example, in
conversation about provided materials,
examiner can identify picture or
naming card content from patient's
response.
2= Severe aphasia; all communication
is through fragmentary expression;
great need for inference, questioning,
and guessing by the listener. Range of
information that can be exchanged is
limited; listener carries burden of
communication. Examiner cannot
identify materials provided from
patient response.
3 = Mute, global aphasia: no usable
speech or auditory comprehension.
0= Normal.
1= Mild-to-moderate dysarthria; patient
slurs at least some words and, at worst,

