BASIS

Number:2017YFC1307900

non-comprehending
patient.
If
facial
trauma/bandages, orotracheal tube, tape or other
physical barriers obscure the face, these should be
removed to the extent possible.

5. Motor arm: The limb is placed in the appropriate
position: extend the arms (palms down) 90 degrees (if
sitting) or 45 degrees (if supine). Drift is scored if the
arm falls before 10 seconds. The aphasic patient is
encouraged using urgency in the voice and
pantomime, but not noxious stimulation. Each limb is
tested in turn, beginning with the non-paretic arm.
Only in the case of amputation or joint fusion at the
shoulder, the examiner should record the score as
untestable (UN), and clearly write the explanation for
this choice.

6. Motor leg: The limb is placed in the appropriate
position:
hold the leg at 30 degrees (always tested supine). Drift
is scored if the leg falls before 5 seconds. The aphasic
patient is encouraged using urgency in the voice and
pantomime, but not noxious stimulation. Each limb is
tested in turn, beginning with the non-paretic leg.
Only in the case of amputation or joint fusion at the
hip, the examiner should record the score as untestable
(UN), and clearly write the explanation for this
choice.
7. Limb ataxia: This item is aimed at finding evidence
of a unilateral cerebellar lesion. Test with eyes open.
In case of visual defect, ensure testing is done in intact
visual field. The finger-nose-finger and heel-shin tests
are performed on both sides, and ataxia is scored only
if present out of proportion to weakness. Ataxia is
absent in the patient who cannot understand or is
paralyzed. Only in the case of amputation or joint
fusion, the examiner should record the score as
untestable (UN), and clearly write the explanation for
this choice. In case of blindness, test by having the
118

paralysis of lower face)
3= Complete paralysis of one or both
sides (absence of facial movement in
the upper and lower face).
0= No drift; limb holds 90 (or 45)
degrees for full 10 seconds.
1= Drift; limb holds 90 (or 45) degrees,
but drifts down before full 10 seconds;
does not hit bed or other support.
2= Some effort against gravity; limb
cannot get to or maintain (if cued) 90
(or 45) degrees, drifts down to bed, but
has some effort against gravity.
3= No effort against gravity; limb falls.
4= No movement.
UN = Amputation or joint fusion:
explain:
5a = Left Arm.
5b = Right arm.
0= No drift; leg holds 30-degree
position for full 5 seconds.
1= Drift; leg falls by the end of the
5-second period but does not hit bed.
2= Some effort against gravity; leg falls
to bed by 5 seconds, but has some
effort against gravity.
3= No effort against gravity; leg falls to
bed immediately.
4= No movement.
UN = Amputation or joint fusion:
explain:
6a. Left Leg
6b. Right Leg.

0= Absent.
1= Present in one limb.
2= Present in two limbs.
UN = Amputation or joint fusion:
explain:

