       BASIS                                                                          Number:2017YFC1307900


       If the patient has severe aphasia, the clarity of           can be understood by some difficulty.
       articulation of spontaneous speech can be rated. Only       2= Severe dysarthria: patient's speech
       if patient is intubated or has other physical barriers to   is so slurred as to be unintelligible in
       producing speech, the examiner should record the            the absence of or out of proportion to
       score as untestable (UN), and clearly write an              any dysphasia, or is mute/anarthric.
       explanation for this choice. Do not tell the patient why    UN = Intubated or other physical
       he or she is being tested.                                  barrier.
       11. Extinction and Inattention (formerly Neglect):
                                                                   0= No abnormality.
       Sufficient information to identify neglect may be
                                                                   1= Visual, tactile, auditory, spatial, or
       obtained during the prior testing. If the patient has a
                                                                   personal inattention or extinction to
       severe visual loss preventing visual double
                                                                   bilateral
       simultaneous stimulation, and the cutaneous stimuli
                                                                   simultaneous stimulation in one of the
       are normal, the score is normal. If the patient has
                                                                   sensory modalities.
       aphasia but does appear to attend to both sides, the
                                                                   2= Profound hemi-inattention or
       score is normal. The presence of visual spatial neglect
                                                                   extinction to more than one modality;
       or anosagnosia may also be taken as evidence of
                                                                   does not recognize own hand or orients
       abnormality. Since the abnormality is scored only if
                                                                   to only one side of space.
       present, the item is never untestable.
2022




                                                       120
