BASIS

Number:2017YFC1307900

1c. LOC Commands: The patient is asked to open and
close the eyes and then to grip and release the
non-paretic hand. Substitute another one step
command if the hand cannot be used. Credit is given if
an unequivocal attempt is made but not completed due
to weakness. If the patient does not respond to
command, the task should be demonstrated to him or
her (pantomime), and the result scored (i.e. follows
none, one or two commands). Patients with trauma,
amputation, or other physical impediments should be
given suitable one-step commands. Only the first
attempt is scored.
2. Best Gaze: Only horizontal eye movements will be
tested. Voluntary or reflexive (oculocephalic) eye
movements will be scored, but caloric testing is not
done. If the patient has a conjugate deviation of the
eyes that can be overcome by voluntary or reflexive
activity, the score will be a 1. If a patient has an
isolated peripheral nerve paresis (CN III, IV or VI),
score a 1. Gaze is testable in all aphasic patients.
Patients with ocular trauma, bandages, preexisting
blindness, or other disorder of visual acuity or fields
should be tested with reflexive movements, and a
choice made by the investigator. Establishing eye
contact and then moving about the patient from side to
side will occasionally clarify the presence of a partial
gaze palsy.
3. Visual: Visual fields (upper and lower quadrants)
are tested by confrontation, using finger counting or
visual threat, as appropriate. Patients may be
encouraged, but if they look at the side of the moving
finger appropriately, this can be scored as normal. If
there is unilateral blindness or enucleation, visual
fields in the remaining eye are scored. Score 1 only if
a clear-cut asymmetry, including quadrantanopia, is
found. If patient is blind from any cause, score 3.
Double simultaneous stimulation is performed in this
case.
If there is extinction, the patient receives a 1, and the
results are used to respond to item 11.
4. Facial palsy: Ask or use pantomime to encourage
the patient to show teeth or raise eyebrows and close
eyes. Score symmetry of grimace in response to
noxious stimuli in the poorly response or
117

0 = Performs both tasks correctly.
1 = Performs one task correctly.
2 = Performs neither task correctly.

0= Normal.
1= Partial gaze palsy; gaze is abnormal
in one or both eyes, but forced
deviation or total gaze paresis is not
present.
2= Forced deviation; or total gaze
paresis not overcome by the
oculocephalic maneuver.

0= No visual loss.
1= Partial hemianopia.
2= Complete hemianopia.
3= Bilateral hemianopia
including cortical blindness)

(blind

0 = Normal symmetrical movements.
1=
Minor
paralysis
(flattened
nasolabial fold, asymmetry on smiling)
2= Partial paralysis (total or near-total

