       BASIS                                                                       Number:2017YFC1307900



2011


2012


2013   Appendix Table 3. National Institute of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS)


2014       The NIHSS is an ordinal hierarchical scale to evaluate the severity of stroke by assessing a
2015   patient’s performance. Scores range from 0 to 42, with higher scores indicating a more severe
2016   deficit. Administer stroke scale items in the order listed. Record performance in each category
2017   after each subscale exam. Do not go back and change scores. Follow directions provided for
2018   each exam technique. Scores should reflect what the patient does, not what the clinician thinks
2019   the patient can do. The clinician should record answers while administering the exam and work
2020   quickly. Except where indicated, the patient should not be coached (i.e. repeated requests to
2021   patient to make a special effort).

       Instructions                                             Scale definition
                                                                0 = Alert; keenly responsive.
                                                                1 = Not alert; but arousable by minor
                                                                stimulation to obey, answer, or
       1a. Level of consciousness. The investigator must
                                                                respond.
       choose a response if a full evaluation is prevented by
                                                                2 = Not alert; required repeated
       such obstacles as an endotracheal tube, language
                                                                stimulation to attend, or is obtunded
       barrier, orotracheal trauma/bandages. A 3 is scored
                                                                and requires strong or painful
       only if the patient makes no movement (other than
                                                                stimulation to make movements (not
       reflexive posturing) in response to noxious
                                                                stereotyped).
       stimulation.
                                                                3 = Responds only with reflex motor or
                                                                autonomic       effects    or     totally
                                                                unresponsive, flaccid and areflexic.
       1b. LOC Questions: The patient is asked the month
       and his/her age. The answer must be correct – there is
       not partial credit for being close. Phasic and stuporous
       patients who do not comprehend the questions will
       score 2. Patients unable to speak because of 0 = Answers both questions correctly.
       endotracheal intubation, orotracheal trauma, severe 1 = Answers one question correctly.
       dysarthria from any cause, language barrier, or any 2 = Answers neither question correctly.
       other problem not secondary to aphasia are given a 1.
       It is important that only the initial answer be graded
       and that the examiners not “help” the patient with
       verbal or non-verbal clues.
                                                     116
