BASIS                                                                         Number:2017YFC1307900


patient touch nose from extended arm position.
8. Sensory: Sensation or grimace to pinprick when
tested, or withdrawal from noxious stimulus in the
obtunded or aphasic patient. Only sensory loss
attributed to stroke is scored as abnormal and the
                                                          0= Normal; no sensory loss.
examiner should test as many body areas (arms [not
                                                          1= Mild-to-moderate sensory loss;
hands], legs, trunk, face) as needed to accurately
                                                          patients feels pinprick is less sharp or is
check for hemisensory loss. A score of 2, 'severe or
                                                          dull on the affected side; or there is a
total sensory loss', should only be given when a severe
                                                          loss of superficial pain with pinprick,
or total loss of sensation can be clearly demonstrated.
                                                          but patient is aware of being touched.
Stuporous and aphasic patients will, therefore,
                                                          2= Severe to total sensory loss; patient
probably score 1 or 0. The patient with brainstem
                                                          is not aware of being touched in the
stroke who has bilateral loss of sensation is scored 2.
                                                          face, arm and leg.
If the patient does not respond and is quadriplegic,
score 2.
Patients in a coma (item 1a=3) are automatically given
a 2 on this item.
                                                          0= No aphasia; normal
                                                          1= Mild-to-moderate aphasia; some
                                                          obvious loss of fluency or facility of
9. Best language: A great deal of information about       comprehension, without significant
comprehension will be obtained during the preceding       limitation on ideas expressed or form
sections of the examination. For this scale item, the     of expression. Reduction of speech
patient is asked to describe what is happening in the     and/or comprehension, however, makes
attached picture, to name the items on the attached       conservation about provided materials
naming sheet and to read from the attached list of        difficult or impossible. For example, in
sentences. Comprehension is judged from responses         conversation about provided materials,
here, as well as to all of the commands in the            examiner can identify picture or
preceding general neurological exam. If visual loss       naming card content from patient's
interferes with the tests, ask the patient to identify    response.
objects placed in the hand, repeat, and produce           2= Severe aphasia; all communication
speech. The intubated patient should be asked to          is through fragmentary expression;
write. The patient in a coma (item 1a=3) will             great need for inference, questioning,
automatically score 3 on this item. The examiner must     and guessing by the listener. Range of
choose a score for the patient with stupor or limited     information that can be exchanged is
cooperation, but a score of 3 should be used only if      limited; listener carries burden of
the patient is mute and follows no one-step               communication. Examiner cannot
commands.                                                 identify materials provided from
                                                          patient response.
                                                          3 = Mute, global aphasia: no usable
                                                          speech or auditory comprehension.
10. Dysarthria: If patient is thought to be normal, an    0= Normal.
adequate sample of speech must be obtained by asking      1= Mild-to-moderate dysarthria; patient
patient to read or repeat words from the attached list.   slurs at least some words and, at worst,
                                               119
