BASIS                                                                          Number:2017YFC1307900


1c. LOC Commands: The patient is asked to open and
close the eyes and then to grip and release the
non-paretic hand. Substitute another one step
command if the hand cannot be used. Credit is given if
an unequivocal attempt is made but not completed due
                                                            0 = Performs both tasks correctly.
to weakness. If the patient does not respond to
                                                            1 = Performs one task correctly.
command, the task should be demonstrated to him or
                                                            2 = Performs neither task correctly.
her (pantomime), and the result scored (i.e. follows
none, one or two commands). Patients with trauma,
amputation, or other physical impediments should be
given suitable one-step commands. Only the first
attempt is scored.
2. Best Gaze: Only horizontal eye movements will be
tested. Voluntary or reflexive (oculocephalic) eye
movements will be scored, but caloric testing is not
done. If the patient has a conjugate deviation of the
                                                            0= Normal.
eyes that can be overcome by voluntary or reflexive
                                                            1= Partial gaze palsy; gaze is abnormal
activity, the score will be a 1. If a patient has an
                                                            in one or both eyes, but forced
isolated peripheral nerve paresis (CN III, IV or VI),
                                                            deviation or total gaze paresis is not
score a 1. Gaze is testable in all aphasic patients.
                                                            present.
Patients with ocular trauma, bandages, preexisting
                                                            2= Forced deviation; or total gaze
blindness, or other disorder of visual acuity or fields
                                                            paresis not overcome by the
should be tested with reflexive movements, and a
                                                            oculocephalic maneuver.
choice made by the investigator. Establishing eye
contact and then moving about the patient from side to
side will occasionally clarify the presence of a partial
gaze palsy.
3. Visual: Visual fields (upper and lower quadrants)
are tested by confrontation, using finger counting or
visual threat, as appropriate. Patients may be
encouraged, but if they look at the side of the moving
finger appropriately, this can be scored as normal. If      0= No visual loss.
there is unilateral blindness or enucleation, visual        1= Partial hemianopia.
fields in the remaining eye are scored. Score 1 only if     2= Complete hemianopia.
a clear-cut asymmetry, including quadrantanopia, is         3= Bilateral hemianopia           (blind
found. If patient is blind from any cause, score 3.         including cortical blindness)
Double simultaneous stimulation is performed in this
case.
If there is extinction, the patient receives a 1, and the
results are used to respond to item 11.
4. Facial palsy: Ask or use pantomime to encourage          0 = Normal symmetrical movements.
the patient to show teeth or raise eyebrows and close       1=    Minor       paralysis    (flattened
eyes. Score symmetry of grimace in response to              nasolabial fold, asymmetry on smiling)
noxious stimuli in the poorly response or                   2= Partial paralysis (total or near-total
                                                117
