ALLEGRO
Version 8 21 December 2022
IRAS 231280

   5.6      WITHDRAWAL OF STUDY PARTICIPANTS
   Participants are free to withdraw from the study at any point or a participant can be
   withdrawn by the Investigator. If withdrawal occurs, the primary reason for withdrawal
   will be documented in the participant’s case record form, if possible. The participant
   will have the option of withdrawal from:

      (i)   study medication with continued study procedures and collection of
            clinical and safety data
      (ii) all aspects of the trial but continued use of data collected up to that
           point or
      (iii) all aspects of the trial with removal of all previously collected data

   Participants who are randomised, but on or before the day of surgery there is a change
   to the planned treatment/ procedure that causes ineligibility will be recorded as a post
   randomisation exclusion.

   Participants who are randomised but do not receive any/all of infusion will undergo
   follow-up and be analysed as intention-to-treat.

   Participants who decide that they do not want to continue contributing data: we will
   keep study data collected to that point unless the participant requests that all data be
   removed. We will continue to collect routine data to measure the primary endpoint
   unless they specifically request that they do not want routine data collected for study
   purposes. Data will be analysed as intention-to-treat.

   Participants who do not survive/regain capacity following surgery or suffer a fatal
   postoperative complication will be analysed as intention-to-treat. In terms of the primary
   outcome data (GI-3 recovery – yes/no), they will classified according to whether gut
   function had returned by 72 hours – this data will be available from their medical notes.
   Those who die before return of gut function will be classified as no GI- 3 recovery.


   5.7      INFORMING KEY PEOPLE
   Following formal trial entry the Study Office will inform the participant’s general
   practitioner of their involvement in the trial if the participant consents to this. This will
   be by letter and information about ALLEGRO and the Study Office contact details will
   be enclosed. GPs are asked to contact the Study Office if the participant moves,
   becomes too ill to continue or dies, or any other notifiable event or possible serious
   adverse event occurs.



   6. INVESTIGATIONAL MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND PLACEBO
   6.1      STUDY DRUG
   Sterile solution of Lidocaine 2% made isotonic with Sodium Chloride
   6.1.1 Study Drug Identification
   Lidocaine hydrochloride 2% solution for injection
   Clear and colourless solution
   6.1.2    Study Drug Manufacturer

   Tayside Pharmaceuticals, (Ninewells Hospital & Medical School, Dundee, DD1 9SY)
   will manufacture the IMP under their MIAIMP number- 14076. The IMP dossier is
                                          CR007-T01v3.0
                                           Page 24 of 61
