ALLEGRO
Version 8 21 December 2022
IRAS 231280
   There may be cases where a drug pack is dispensed at a recruitment site for a trial
   participant, collected by trial staff and the participant is not able to receive all or any of
   the infusion. Where possible, medication that is unused for this reason will be returned
   to the Clinical Trials Pharmacy for destruction. If this is not possible (for example the
   pack has been opened), the unused study medication can be safely discarded in
   theatre. A destruction certificate will be completed in such cases by trial staff.


   6.1.7 Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC)
   A simplified IMP Dossier has been produced by Tayside Pharmaceuticals to
   summarise information related to the quality, manufacture and control of the IMP. A
   copy is filed in the TMF. A representative Lidocaine Summary of Product
   Characteristics (SmPC) is provided in a separate document with a cover sheet and
   signature page (signed and verified by the CI and Sponsor) and section 4.8 acts as the
   reference safety information for the trial IMP. Copies are held in the TMF and at site.

   6.2     PLACEBO
   0.9% sterile Sodium Chloride solution for injection.
   Clear and colourless solution.
   The placebo will appear identical to the IMP.

   The placebo will          be   manufactured,    labelled   and    packaged     by    Tayside
   Pharmaceuticals.


   6.2.1   Labelling and Packaging
   The placebo will be labelled as described in section 6.1.3

   Medication labels will be in the local language and comply with the legal requirements
   of Annex 13 of the European Union’s Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP). They will
   include storage conditions for the drug, but no information about the patient.
   6.2.2   Storage
   The placebo will be stored as described in section 6.1.4

   6.3     DOSING REGIME
   Intravenous bolus of 2% lidocaine at induction of anaesthesia (1.5mg/kg ideal body
   weight) over 20 minutes followed by intravenous infusion of 1.5 mg/kg/hour ideal body
   weight with a maximum rate of 120mg/hour (6ml/hour) for a minimum of 6 hours up to a
   maximum of 12 hours (see below).

   Ideal body weight is used rather than actual body weight to prevent the possibility of
   toxicity by exceeding the upper therapeutic threshold of lidocaine in very overweight
   patients.[30]

   In patients whose weight is less than ideal body weight, actual weight should be used
   to calculate dose.

                                    Ideal body weight in Kg:
                                      Men: Height in cm-100
                                    Women: Height in cm -105

   Height and weight are measured routinely as part of preoperative assessment.

                                           CR007-T01v3.0
                                            Page 26 of 61
