ALLEGRO
Version 7 15 November 2022
IRAS 231280


In summary:
Event                          If the event is thought to be an      If the event is not thought to be
                               adverse reaction                      an adverse reaction
Lidocaine toxicity within 2h   Record on adverse event log           n/a
of infusion                    (SAR if meets criteria for serious)
Transient events common        Record on adverse event log           Recorded on adverse event log
after surgery (section
11.3.3)
Complications of surgery       Record on adverse event log           Recorded on adverse event log
Clavien-Dindo grade 1/2
Complications of surgery       Record as SAR/SUSAR                   Record as outcome data on CRF
Clavien-Dindo grade 3+
Prolongation of admission      n/a                                   Record as outcome data on CRF
for social reasons
Death                          Record as SAR/SUSAR                   Record as SAE




11.6    REGULATORY REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
ACCORD is responsible for pharmacovigilance reporting on behalf of the co-sponsors (The
University of Edinburgh and NHS Lothian).
The ACCORD Research Governance & QA Office has a legal responsibility to notify the
regulatory competent authority and relevant ethics committee (Research Ethics Committee
(REC) that approved the trial). Fatal or life threatening SUSARs will be reported no later
than 7 calendar days and all other SUSARs will be reported no later than 15 calendar days
after ACCORD is first aware of the reaction. ACCORD will inform the trial office by emailing
allegro@abdn.ac.uk and CI of all SUSARs and any other arising safety information.
ACCORD (or delegate) will inform Investigators at participating sites of all SUSARs and any
other arising safety information.
ACCORD will be responsible for providing safety line listings and assistance; however, it is
the responsibility of the Investigator to prepare the Development Safety Update Report. This
annual report lists all SARs and SUSARs reported during that time period. The responsibility
of submitting the Development Safety Update Report to the regulatory authority and RECs,
lies with ACCORD.

11.7    FOLLOW UP PROCEDURES
After initially recording an AE or recording and reporting an SAE, the Investigator should
make every effort to follow each event until a final outcome can be recorded or reported as
necessary. Follow up information on an SAE will be reported to the ACCORD office.

If, after follow up, resolution of an event cannot be established, an explanation should be
recorded on the AE log or additional information section of SAE form.

11.8    PREGNANCY
Pregnancy is an exclusion criteria and is confirmed at time of surgery. Pregnancy post-
intervention is not considered an AE or SAE; however, the Investigator will collect pregnancy
information for any female participants who become pregnant during the 30-day follow-up
period post-intervention. The Investigator will record the information on a Pregnancy
Notification Form and submit this to the ACCORD office within 14 days of being made aware
of the pregnancy.



                                               CR007-T01v3.0
                                                Page 48 of 61
