ALLEGRO
Version 7 15 November 2022
IRAS 231280


     The Trial Website is SSL secured, ensuring links between server and browser client
     are always encrypted. Access to patient identifiable information is limited to key
     personnel only and has appropriate user level access across a secure network,
     personal identifiable data held in the database will be encrypted to AES_256 encryption
     standard.

     At the end of the trial, electronic data will be archived at The University of Aberdeen.



     9. DATA MANAGEMENT
     9.1.1   Personal Data
 The following personal data will be collected as part of the research:

       Name
       Postal Address
       Email address
       NHS number (England only)
       CHI number (Scotland only)

 Participants are allocated an individual trial number. Participant’s details are stored on a
 secure database under the guidelines of the 1998 Data Protection Act. To comply with
 the 5th Principle of the Data Protection Act 1998. The CHaRT senior IT development
 manager (in collaboration with the CI) manages access rights to the data set.

 Personal data is not kept for longer than is required for the purpose for which it has been
 acquired.
 Transfer of Data
 Data collected or generated by the study (including personal data) will not be transferred
 to any external individuals or organisations outside of the Sponsoring organisation(s).
 Data collected or generated by the study will be accessed by CHaRT, University of
 Aberdeen to manage on behalf of the sponsors.

  9.1.2 Data Controller
 The University of Edinburgh and NHS Lothian are joint data controllers along with any
 other entities involved in delivering the study that may be a data controller in accordance
 with applicable laws (e.g. the site)

  9.1.3 Data Breaches
 Any data breaches will be reported to the University of Edinburgh and NHS Lothian Data
 Protection Officers who will onward report to the relevant authority according to the
 appropriate timelines if required.



     10. STATISTICS AND DATA ANALYSIS
     10.1    SAMPLE SIZE CALCULATION
     We have interrogated the literature for the most relevant data to inform our estimates
     of the minimal clinically important difference, and the untreated event rate for the
     primary outcome, and hence required sample size. Data from the applicants’ pilot study
     (referred to here as the Targinact study) in laparoscopic colectomy is highly relevant
                                           CR007-T01v3.0
                                            Page 40 of 61
