ALLEGRO
Version 7 15 November 2022
IRAS 231280


  regression for continuous outcomes). All treatment effects will be presented with 95%
  confidence intervals. Statistical analysis for. subgroups include:
         Operation (right/extended right colectomy v “left-sided” colectomy (=left
         colectomy, sigmoid colectomy, high anterior resection))
         ERAS protocol compliance for elements known to impact gut function (see
         section 3.2.2 above)

  Potential moderating of subgroups on the treatment effect will be estimated by
  repeating the analysis of selected outcomes including treatment-by-subgroup
  interactions. Analysis will be by intention-to-treat. We do not anticipate any missing
  data due to the low-risk nature of the surgery and short time-frame of the primary
  outcome. However, should we observe substantial missing data we will use multiple
  imputation and pattern mixture methods to explore the robustness of treatment effect
  estimates.

  10.3 HEALTH ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
  Full details of these analyses will be specified in a comprehensive Health Economic
  Analysis Plan, authored by the study health economist(s), and signed off by the PI prior
  to analysis. However, to summarise:

  To maximise UK policy relevance, health economic analysis will follow NICE reference
  case recommendations[20] including: Adoption of an NHS and PSS (personal social
  service) costing perspective for primary analyses; cost-utility approach (results
  presented in terms of incremental cost per quality adjusted life year (QALY), with
  QALYs derived from EQ-5D-5L); discount rate of 3.5% for both costs and QALYs (if
  applicable); use of probabilistic sensitivity analysis; and provision of value of
  information analysis to inform future research.

  Data Collection & Variable Derivation
  Where possible healthcare resource use (for cost generation) are being extracted from
  electronic records. This will include direct surgery time and treatments used, lidocaine
  infusion, cardiac monitoring, details of time spent recovering in hospital wards, and any
  re-admissions within the 90 day trial period. Additional top up self-report surveying of
  primary care resource use will be performed at the 30 day follow up to check for
  unanticipated offsetting of resource use for example increased GP/A&E contacts
  following early discharge. Each of these NHS resource use elements will then be
  converted to cost estimates using standard UK price weights [21,22] and summed to
  estimate total NHS costs per patient.

  Self-reported EQ-5D-5L data are being recorded daily between baseline and discharge
  (inclusive), and at day 7, day 30 and 90 day follow up. This data will be converted to
  health utility scores using the standard algorithm [23], unless at the time of analysis
  and alternative algorithm has been developed which has policy support. QALYs will
  then be generated using an area under the curve approach. [24]

  Analysis
  Within trial period comparisons of costs and QALYs between trial arms will be
  undertaken via     generalised linear modelling   to    account       for
      any      skewed

  distributions, [25,26] with both univariate assessment and multivariate assessments
  controlling for all minimisation variables. Means per trial arm and differences in means

  with accompanying standard errors will be reported to provide parameter estimates for
  use in future research.
                                       CR007-T01v3.0
                                        Page 42 of 61
