ALLEGRO
Version 8 21 December 2022
IRAS 231280
   inflammation. Measured in most units as part of routine care. Results to be obtained
   from medical notes.

   OBAS Score
   Patient-reported outcome measure (PROM) which assesses pain intensity and opioid-
   related adverse effects and patient satisfaction with analgesia. See Appendix 2

   QoR Score
   PROM to measure quality of recovery after surgery and anaesthesia. See Appendix 4

   EQ-5D
   Standardised PROM instrument for use as a measure of health outcome and used in Quality
   Adjusted Life Year (QALY) calculations for health economic analyses..

   Intraoperative blood loss
   As documented on anaesthetic record- recorded as part of routine documentation of
   the operation.

   ERAS Protocol compliance
   Assesses compliance with accepted best practice in perioperative care during the
   operation and during postoperative days 1-3. The key variables are detailed in section
   2.2.2 secondary endpoints:
          Avoidance of long-acting opioids for maintaining anaesthesia- certain IV opioids
          are more likely to cause GI side-effects and these will be identified from the
          concomitant medication list, source data= anaesthetic record
          Prescribed PONV prophylaxis for 48 hours- Y/N response on CRF, source
          data= patient prescription chart
          Euvolaemic IV fluid policy-
                  -total IV fluid administration from 24 hours from start of anaesthesia,
                  source data=prescription chart
                  - Day 1 weight difference is the most accurate indication of fluid balance
                  and is calculated from the difference between patient weight 24 hours
                  after start of anaesthesia (+/-6 hours) and pre-operative weight (eCRF
                  will calculate the difference)
          Early feeding- oral supplement on day of surgery and solid food offered from
          postoperative day 1 onwards -data obtained from medical record/prescription
          chart/ direct questioning of patient by CRN
          Early mobilisation- patients should be out of bed for 2 hours on day of surgery
          and 4-6 hours every day thereafter source data= medical record
          /direct questioning of patient by CRN
          Routine postoperative laxative prescription- Y/N, source data= medical
          record/prescription chart
          No NGT immediately after surgery- any intraoperative insertion of a NG tube
          where one was not in place pre-operatively and which was left in situ
          postoperatively, source data= operation note or direct observation on day 1 by
          CRN.

   PONV Impact Score
   PROM assessing severity and clinical importance of postoperative nausea and
   vomiting in general surgical population (see Appendix 3)

   Time to first flatus
   See Endpoints section 2. To be calculated and recorded by CRN and entered directly
   on eCRF as may not be recorded in medical notes.


                                        CR007-T01v3.0
                                         Page 31 of 61
