ALLEGRO
Version 8 21 December 2022
IRAS 231280


   *Women of child bearing age will have negative pregnancy test confirmed before inclusion to trial.
   Pregnancy test is part of routine preoperative assessment in women of child-bearing age hence this is not
   an additional test for trial purposes.

   4.4      CO-ENROLMENT
   Patients participating in the active intervention phase of another therapeutic clinical trial
   or other interventional trial will not be co-enrolled. Participants in long-term follow- up of
   an interventional clinical trial or participants in non-interventional research may be co-
   enrolled.

   Arrangements for co-enrolment with another interventional trial (in long term follow up
   only), the co-enrolment checklist (POL008-F01) must be completed by the Sponsor(s)
   representative in conjunction with the CI prior to the co-enrolment proceeding.

   Participants recruited onto the ALLEGRO study will be prohibited from enrollment onto
   other interventional research for 30 days following infusion of the IMP.



   5. PARTICIPANT SELECTION AND ENROLMENT
   5.1      IDENTIFYING PARTICIPANTS
   At each site, members of the local clinical team will identify participants from hospital
   systems already in place to arrange surgery for patients: out-patient lists, local
   colorectal cancer multidisciplinary team meetings, planned operating lists for surgeons
   in each unit, waiting lists, and from promotion of the study amongst colorectal surgeons
   in each unit.

   Medical or study staff will approach patients about study participation at existing points
   of contact with the surgical team prior to surgery. These may include any face-to-face
   or virtual outpatient consultation with the surgeon, by post or at the preoperative
   assessment of fitness for surgery and on the day of hospital admission.

   Outpatient clinic: Investigators (Clinical team) will approach patients at the outpatient
   clinic or preoperative assessment clinic after the decision to perform colorectal surgery
   has been confirmed with the consultant surgeon responsible. At this appointment, a
   letter of invitation and a patient information leaflet will be provided to the patient. If the
   out-patient clinic is held virtually, then the investigator will send a copy of the patient
   information leaflet to the participant.

   By post: Alternatively, after the decision to perform colorectal surgery has been
   confirmed, the consultant surgeon responsible or a member of their team will write to
   the patient, enclosing the patient information leaflet. This will give adequate time for
   patients to read the PIS before consent for participation is sought.

   Day of hospital admission: Patients can also be approached about the study by the
   surgical team on the day of hospital admission and given information about the study.
   Patients will be able to consent prior to admission for surgery, or following admission
   prior to surgery.

   In all instances, potential participants will be given adequate time to consider their
   participation in the trial.

   Eligibility will be determined by the trained local medical or study team members
   (clinical team) and confirmed by the local study team at the time of consent.

                                               CR007-T01v3.0
                                                Page 21 of 61
