ALLEGRO
Version 7 15 November 2022
IRAS 231280
  Participants will be instructed to contact their Investigator at any time after consenting
  to join the trial if any symptoms develop. Adverse events (AE) that occur after informed
  consent until 30 days after surgery should be recorded in the AE log that is part of the
  Case Report Form (CRF). In the case of an AE, the Investigator should initiate the
  appropriate treatment according to their medical judgment.

  11.1    DEFINITIONS
  An adverse event (AE) is any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical trial participant
  which does not necessarily have a causal relationship with an investigational medicinal
  product (IMP).
  An adverse reaction (AR) is any untoward and unintended response to an IMP which
  is related to any dose administered to that participant.

  A serious adverse event (SAE), serious adverse reaction (SAR). Any AE or AR that
  at any dose:
  □     results in death of the clinical trial participant;
  □     is life threatening*;
  □     requires in-patient hospitalisation^ or prolongation of existing hospitalisation;
  □     results in persistent or significant disability or incapacity;
  □     consists of a congenital anomaly or birth defect;
  □     results in any other significant medical event not meeting the criteria above.

  *Life-threatening in the definition of an SAE or SAR refers to an event where the
  participant was at risk of death at the time of the event. It does not refer to an event
  which hypothetically might have caused death if it were more severe.

  ^Any hospitalisation that was planned prior to randomisation will not meet SAE criteria.
  Any hospitalisation that is planned post randomisation will meet the SAE criteria.


  A suspected unexpected serious adverse reaction (SUSAR) is any AR that is
  classified as serious and is suspected to be related to the IMP, that it is not consistent
  with the information about the IMP in the Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC).

11.2     IDENTIFYING AEs AND SAEs
In this study, AEs will be identified and recorded from the time a participant signs the consent
form to take part in the study until the 30th postoperative day.. In addition, all appropriate
SAEs will be recorded from the time a participant signs the consent form to take part in the
study until the 30th postoperative day.

Participants will be asked daily about the occurrence of AEs/SAEs during admission and
then again during the 7 day (if discharged) and 30 day follow up telephone calls. Open-
ended and non-leading verbal questioning of the participant will be used to enquire about
AE/SAE occurrence. Participants will also be asked if they have been admitted to hospital,
had any accidents, used any new medicines or changed concomitant medication regimens.
If there is any doubt as to whether a clinical observation is an AE, the event will be recorded.

AEs and SAEs may also be identified via information from support departments e.g.
laboratories. Patient hospital records will be labelled to alert medical staff to clinical trial
participation and reporting of unplanned admissions to the study team.




                                         CR007-T01v3.0
                                          Page 44 of 61
