ALLEGRO
Version 7 15 November 2022
IRAS 231280



  7.3     COMPLIANCE ASSESSMENTS
  Since this is an in-hospital study with short duration of study drug/placebo infusion it is
  unlikely that non-compliance will be an issue. Monitoring the infusion will be a
  documented part of normal nursing care.

  7.4     LONG TERM FOLLOW UP ASSESSMENTS
  Participants will be followed up using record linkage post-operatively to determine
  survival and cancer-specific outcomes. Consent for this will be sought at recruitment and
  a separate protocol will be prepared to detail the long term follow up.

  7.5     STORAGE AND ANALYSIS OF SAMPLES
  No trial specific samples will be collected for participants.



  8. DATA COLLECTION
  Outcome data up to the point of discharge will be entered into either paper or electronic
  CRFs, developed by CHaRT, by the local research team at each centre. If data is
  entered onto paper CRFs they must be inputted onto the database in a timely manner.
  The post-discharge paper-based questionnaires will be completed by participants by
  telephone or post, and again will be inputted into an electronic database by the local
  research team or staff at the central trial office. The trial manager and clinical site
  coordinator will liaise with local sites to address data completeness and data queries.


  8.1      SOURCE DATA DOCUMENTATION
  Source data is defined as all information in original records and certified copies of
  original records or clinical findings, observations, or other activities in a clinical trial
  necessary for the reconstruction and evaluation of the trial. Source data are contained
  in source documents.

  Source documents are original documents, data and records where source data are
  recorded for the first time.


  8.2     CASE REPORT FORMS
  CHaRT will develop the case report forms for the trial in collaboration with the Chief
  Investigator and Trial Statistician.
  All case report forms must be reviewed and approved by the ACCORD Monitor prior
  to use (see ACCORD SOP CR013 CRF Design and Implementation).
  NOTE: All electronic case report forms are subject to Sponsor approval (see section
  8.3).

  8.3     TRIAL DATABASE
  A web-based trial database will be developed by the programming team in CHaRT.
  Individual users will be given unique log in details. Access to edit the database for
  recruitment site staff will be limited to the participants recruited at that site.

  Recruitment site staff will be responsible for entering data collected at site; trial office
  staff will be responsible for entering any data collected by postal questionnaire and
  returned by participants to the trial office.
                                         CR007-T01v3.0
                                          Page 39 of 61
