ALLEGRO
Version 8 21 December 2022
IRAS 231280
   Time to first bowel movement
   See Endpoints section 2. To be calculated and recorded by CRN and entered directly
   on eCRF as may not be recorded in medical notes.

   Time to tolerating solid food
   See Endpoints section 2. To be calculated and recorded by CRN and entered directly
   on eCRF as may not be recorded in medical notes.

   Pregnancy Test
   Urinary beta HCG dipstick test – undertaken as part of routine clinical care

   Total antiemetic dose
   Antiemetic drugs administered up to 72 hours from start of anaesthesia.


   7.2.2 Schedule of Assessments

   Baseline assessment
   The data is likely to have been captured at pre-assessment and can be transcribed into
   the CRF/eCRF. However, certain key variables should be confirmed at the time of
   admission for surgery (height, weight, pregnancy test, confirmation of eligibility).
   Note that P-POSSUM depends on some data which can only be determined intra and
   postoperatively.
   The following data will be recorded on case report form from the patient and their
   medical notes:
        Consent
        Confirmation of eligibility
        Pregnancy test (for women of childbearing potential)
        Demographic data, contact details
        Height
        Weight
        p-POSSUM
        CRP (if measured as part of routine care)

   Participants will be asked to complete a questionnaire comprising:
       OBAS score
       QoR score
       EQ-5D.

   Post-operative day 1(defined as the first calendar day after the day of surgery
   i.e. day of surgery =day 0)
   On post-operative day 1, the following data will be recorded on case report form from
   the patient and their medical records.
         Weight (to be obtained by CRN if not recorded as standard care in participating
           unit, as close as possible to 24 hours following start of anaethesia)
         Operation
         Anaesthesia start time
         Knife to skin time
         Duration of operation (knife to skin to entry into operating theatre recovery
           suite)
         Duration of lidocaine/placebo infusion
         Intraoperative blood loss (mls)
         ERAS protocol compliance
         Adverse events
                                        CR007-T01v3.0
                                         Page 32 of 61
