ALLEGRO
Version 7 15 November 2022
IRAS 231280


15. STUDY CONDUCT RESPONSIBILITIES
15.1     PROTOCOL AMENDMENTS
Any changes in research activity, except those necessary to remove an apparent,
immediate hazard to the participant in the case of an urgent safety measure, must be
reviewed and approved by the Chief Investigator.
Proposed amendments will be submitted to the Sponsor for classification and authorisation.
Any amendments concerning modification of the intended use of the IMP or placebo will be
notified to Tayside Pharmaceuticals for review and comment.
Amendments to the protocol must be submitted in writing to the appropriate REC,
Regulatory Authority and local R&D for approval prior to implementation.
Following approval, ACCORD will provide Tayside Pharmaceuticals with a copy of the
amended protocol and associated documents.


15.2     PROTOCOL NON-COMPLIANCE
15.2.1 Definitions
       Deviation - Any change, divergence, or departure from the study design,
       procedures defined in the protocol or GCP that does not significantly affect a
       subjects rights, safety, or well-being, or study outcomes.
       Violation - A deviation that may potentially significantly impact the
       completeness, accuracy, and/or reliability of the study data or that may
       significantly affect a subject’s rights, safety, or well-being
15.2.2 Protocol Waivers
Prospective protocol deviations, i.e. protocol waivers, will not be approved by the sponsors
and therefore will not be implemented, except where necessary to eliminate an immediate
hazard to study participants. If this necessitates a subsequent protocol amendment, this
should be submitted to the REC, Regulatory Authority and local R&D for review and approval
if appropriate.
15.2.3 Management of Deviations and Violations
Protocol deviations will be recorded in a protocol deviation log and logs will be submitted to
the sponsors every 3 months. Each protocol violation will be reported to the sponsor within
3 days of becoming aware of the violation.
Deviation logs / violation forms will be transmitted via email to QA@accord.scot. Only forms
in a pdf format will be accepted by ACCORD via email. Forms may also be sent by fax to
ACCORD on +44 (0)131 242 9447 or may be submitted by hand to the office. Where missing
information has not been sent to ACCORD after an initial report, ACCORD will contact the
Investigator and request the missing information. The Investigator must respond to these
requests in a timely manner.

15.3     URGENT SAFETY MEASURES
The Investigator may implement a deviation from or change to the protocol to eliminate an
immediate hazard to trial participants without prior approval from the REC and the MHRA.
This is defined as an urgent safety measure and the investigator must contact the Clinical
Trial Unit at the MHRA and discuss the issue with a medical assessor immediately (+44 (0)
20 3080 6456).
                                        CR007-T01v3.0
                                         Page 57 of 61
