ALLEGRO
Version 7 15 November 2022
IRAS 231280


  Within trial cost-utility analysis will be undertaken via the recycled predictions method
  detailed by Glick et al. [26]

  It is anticipated that any observable impacts on QALYs will be confined to the first few
  days post-surgery, hence the daily data collection prior to discharge. However given
  the low weighting of a single day in QALY terms, even large differences during this
  period may have limited impact on overall cost-effectiveness. As such early
  convergence of health utilities is expected to be an important explanatory factor when
  undertaking cost-utility analysis, the QALY profiles of the two arms up to discharge will
  be presented graphically.

  To determine if there is a need for economic modelling of longer term cost-efficiency,
  and if so details such as relevant model structure(s) and potential sources of parameter
  inputs, a consultation process with clinical experts and examination of the literature will
  be undertaken. In particularly low frequency high severity events of colorectal surgery
  or lidocaine toxicity will be considered. Complications of surgery to be considered will
  include but not be limited to: anastomotic leak, abdominal sepsis, wound healing
  problems, cardiorespiratory (MI, PTE, DVT, pneumonia etc), acute kidney injury, CVA,
  multi-organ failure, death. Lidocaine toxicity effects to be considered will include:
  seizures, cardiac ventricular arrhythmias/asystole, and death. Where necessary this
  process will make use of the recent Cochrane review [28] topped up with an additional
  literature search towards the end of the trial to capture new literature published in this
  period with additional searches for any required variables identified which are not
  available from either of these. In absence of empirical data, parameters may be elicited
  from expert opinion using established techniques if appropriate. [29]

  Where possible and reasonable to do so, incremental cost effectiveness ratios (ICERs)
  in terms of cost per QALY will be presented and compared to established UK
  thresholds. [20] Uncertainty will be presented in the form of probabilistic sensitivity
  analysis (PSA) using cost effectiveness acceptability curves (CEACs) [26] with
  deterministic sensitivity analysis around key assumptions or where a probabilistic
  approach would be inappropriate.

  We initially planned to carry out sensitivity analysis to model changes in proportions of
  patients receiving laparoscopic surgery vs open surgery. Closure of the parallel
  exploratory RCT of open cases means that such analysis is unlikely to be possible.

  Value of Information Analysis
  The value of further research will be determined and compared using value of
  information analysis to identify the parameters which are most likely to change the
  decision recommended by the model such as: those with a high degree of uncertainty;
  high weighting; or, an important structural role in the model. This information can be
  used to make recommendations for efficient future research.


  11. PHARMACOVIGILANCE
  The Investigator is responsible for the detection and documentation of events meeting
  the criteria and definitions detailed below.

  Full details of contraindications and side effects that have been reported following
  administration of the IMP can be found in the current, approved Summary of Product

  Characteristics (SmPC).

                                        CR007-T01v3.0
                                         Page 43 of 61
