ALLEGRO
Version 8 21 December 2022
IRAS 231280
   prepared by Tayside Pharmaceuticals.

   6.1.3 Labelling and Packaging
   Tayside Pharmaceuticals will undertake the labelling and the manufacturing of the
   study drug. The study drug will be presented in 100ml glass DIN bottles with an
   injection bung and sealed with an aluminium over seal and each bottle will be
   overwrapped. Packs will be blinded before regulatory release to the site.

   Medication labels will be in English and comply with the legal requirements of Annex
   13 of the European Union’s Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP). They will include
   storage conditions for the drug and drug pack number but no information about the
   patient. All boxes and vials used for the IMP will be labelled.
   6.1.4 Storage
   The drug packs stored in pharmacy will be subject to routine temperature controls in
   place within pharmacy. Any drug pack subject to temperature deviation (>25°C) will be
   quarantined, pending a decision as to whether they can be returned to stock or need
   to be destroyed.
   Drug packs have a shelf life of 24 months and should be protected from light. If a bottle
   is removed from the box the overwrap will continue to protect the contents from light.

   Stocks will be temperature monitored at the manufacturer prior to dispatch.
   6.1.5 Regulatory Release to Site
   All required approvals for a site must be in place before regulatory release to a
   recruitment site can be authorised. Once these are in place, the Trial Office will order
   stocks to be released from Tayside Pharmaceuticals and sent to the recruitment site.
   Following confirmation of receipt of study medication at a site, the trial office will release
   drug packs onto the IVRS to allow for randomisation to take place.

   The IVRS will include a low-stock notification to the Trial Office so that re-orders can
   be placed as appropriate.


   6.1.6 Drug Accountability and Destruction of Trial Drug
   Destruction of trial drug can take place at local recruitment sites or at the facilities of
   Tayside Pharmaceuticals.

   At each site, the PI is responsible for ensuring drug accountability. In addition to
   recording the drug pack number on the inclusion form and in the medical records, an
   accountability log of the drug packs dispensed will also be maintained by the Clinical
   Trials Pharmacy at each site.

   Throughout the trial expired medication will be destroyed at recruitment sites following
   local procedures. Clinical Trials Pharmacy staff will complete a destruction certificate
   confirming which packs have been destroyed – a copy will be retained in the Pharmacy
   file and a copy forwarded to the Trial Office. Any expired medication not released to
   recruitment sites will be destroyed by Tayside Pharmaceuticals. A destruction
   certificate will be completed - a copy should be retained by Tayside Pharmaceuticals
   and a copy forwarded to the Trial Office.

   At the end of the recruitment phase of the trial, unused medication will be destroyed
   (and documented) at recruitment sites or Tayside Pharmaceuticals as described
   above.

                                           CR007-T01v3.0
                                            Page 25 of 61
