ALLEGRO
Version 8 21 December 2022
IRAS 231280




   7. STUDY ASSESSMENTS
   7.1     SAFETY ASSESSMENTS
   Safety will be assessed perioperatively and postoperatively for 30 days.

   Safety will be assessed by recording the incidence of AE/SAEs attributable or possibly
   attributable to IV lidocaine toxicity based on its well-documented side-effect profile
   (neurological impairments, respiratory depression, convulsions, ventricular arrhythmia
   (complete heart block). Continuous cardiac monitoring during the period of IV lidocaine
   infusion is mandatory for trial participants because of the potential for cardiac
   arrhythmia at toxic levels- note that the dose and duration of infusion used in this study
   makes toxicity extremely unlikely.

   In the event of signs or symptoms of Lidocaine toxicity (including seizures, cardiac
   ventricular arrhythmias/asystole) Lidocaine treatment will be stopped. As above, the
   treatment of systemic Lidocaine toxicity is supportive treatment and lipid rescue.

   Colorectal surgery has inherent dangers of various well-recognised and significant
   complications. These will be specified and recorded as part of the specified tertiary
   end-points but will be distinguished from adverse events attributable to lidocaine.
   Section 11.0 details the adverse events that will be recorded and reported for
   ALLEGRO.


   7.2     STUDY ASSESSMENTS
   The schedule for study assessments is summarised in table 1. Clinicians and nurses
   will follow their local clinical guidance as per standard clinical care for their contact with
   participants or between each other. While physical distancing measures are in place,
   face-to-face contact with participants should be kept to a minimum; where face-to-face
   contact is required, a safe distance should be maintained and appropriate PPE worn.


   7.2.1 Study Assessments
   The following assessments will be made as per the schedule outlined below and
   summarised in table 1. Some of the following information will be captured routinely into
   medical notes. The Research Nurse will be required to extract information from medical
   records to CRF/eCRF, but also to record some trial-specific data directly to the
   CRF/eCRF.

   Demographic data and contact details
   Name, age, CHI/hospital number, gender, unique identifier, address, contact
   telephone number

   Clinical history/past medical history
   Significant current or previous medical and surgical conditions

   p-POSSUM
   Risk stratification tool to compare morbidity and mortality in a wide range of general
   surgical procedures in order to facilitate surgical audit and the comparison of units
   performance.

   CRP
   Blood test marker for inflammation in the body. Levels of CRP rise in response to
                                           CR007-T01v3.0
                                            Page 30 of 61
