ALLEGRO
Version 8 21 December 2022
IRAS 231280
           Major complications
           Measurement variable: Clavien-Dindo classification grading ≥3
           Participant-level analysis metric: value
           Method of aggregation: total
           Specific time-point: up to 30 days from date of operation
           Data collected from patient or hospital notes

   Record linkage analysis of survival
   Measurement variable: survival and cancer-specific outcome data in appropriate
   patients
   Participant-level analysis metric: cancer-related death; cancer related recurrence
   Method of aggregation:
   Specific time-point: up to 10 years


   3. STUDY DESIGN
   U.K. multicentre double blind parallel group placebo-controlled randomised CTIMP of
   a 6 or 12-hour (see 6.3 Dosing Regimen) perioperative infusion of intravenous
   lidocaine in colorectal surgery. An initial internal pilot phase will be built into the trial to
   assess feasibility of recruitment.

   The primary study will be in minimally invasive (laparoscopic or robotic) colectomy, and
   the sample size of 562 is calculated accordingly.

   We will collect randomised data on an additional 100-200 open colorectal surgery
   patients using an adaptive design to assess recruitment and effect size as the trial
   proceeds. The patient cohort eligible for this exploratory trial will be those patients
   undergoing open elective colorectal resections for whom an epidural is not planned
   (co-administration of epidural local anaesthetic and IV lidocaine is contraindicated due
   to the increased risk of systemic lidocaine toxicity). We will use a group sequential
   interim analysis approach to this study to maximise our ability to generate sufficient
   evidence to estimate the effectiveness.
   Update: June 2020. Recruitment to the parallel exploratory RCT of open surgery cases
   was closed in June 2020 because of slow accrual of such cases (see section 4.1 for
   further details).

     3.1   Internal Pilot
   Ahead of the expansion to the full site list we will first undertake an internal pilot RCT
   specifically to provide reassurance on all the trial processes, including recruitment,
   consent, randomization, delivery of treatment, and follow-up assessments to ensure
   that all run smoothly. In addition, the impact of the contraindication to co-administration
   of regional lidocaine infusion during the period of IV lidocaine/placebo infusion will be
   assessed during the internal pilot.

   The internal pilot will run in at least 4 of the trial sites and will recruit 50 laparoscopic
   patients, at which point the TSC will review recruitment and other outputs on trial
   processes. During the pilot, open cases will also be recruited but there is no target
   number in place for this. The purpose of these pilot sites is to provide reassurance
   about all of the trial processes, including recruitment, consent, randomisation, delivery
   of the intervention, and measurement of the primary and secondary outcomes, before
   expansion to the full set of sites.




                                           CR007-T01v3.0
                                            Page 19 of 61
