RATE-AF Trial Protocol                                                         Version 3.0, 25th July 2019


        the MHRA and the REC of the measures taken and the circumstances giving rise to those
        measures.



        11        Quality Control and Quality Assurance

        11.1 Site Set-Up and Initiation

        All participating Principal Investigators will be asked to sign the necessary agreements and supply
        a current CV to the Trials Office. All members of the site research team will also be required to
        sign a site signature and delegation log. Prior to commencing recruitment all sites will undergo a
        process of initiation and will have completed GCP training. Key members of the site research team
        will be required to attend either a meeting or a teleconference covering aspects of the trial design,
        protocol procedures, Adverse Event reporting, collection and reporting of data and record keeping.
        Sites will be provided with an Investigator Site File containing essential documentation, instructions,
        and other documentation required for the conduct of the trial. The Trials Office must be informed
        immediately of any change in the site research team.


        11.2 Central Monitoring

        Monitoring of this trial will be to ensure compliance with Good Clinical Practice. A risk proportionate
        approach to the initiation, management and monitoring of the trial will be adopted (as per the
        MRC/DH/MHRA Joint Project: Risk-adapted Approaches to the Management of Clinical Trials of
        Investigational Medicinal Products) and outlined in the trial-specific risk assessment.

        The Trials Office will be in regular contact with the site research team to check on progress and
        address any queries that they may have. The Trials Office will check incoming CRFs for
        compliance with the protocol, data consistency, missing data and timing. Sites will be asked for
        missing data or clarification of inconsistencies or discrepancies. Sites will be requested to send in
        copies of signed Informed Consent Forms and other documentation for in-house review for all
        participants providing explicit consent.

        Additional on-site monitoring visits may be triggered, for example by poor CRF return, poor data
        quality, low SAE reporting rates, excessive number of participant withdrawals or deviations. This
        will be detailed in the monitoring plan. If a monitoring visit is required the Trials Office will contact
        the site to arrange a date for the proposed visit and will provide the site with written confirmation.
        Investigators will allow the RATE-AF trial staff access to source documents as requested.


        11.3 Audit and Inspection

        The Principal Investigator will permit trial-related monitoring, quality checks, audits, ethical reviews,
        and regulatory inspection(s) at their site, providing direct access to source data/documents. The
        Principal Investigator will comply with these visits and any required follow up. Sites are also
        requested to notify the Trials Office of any MHRA inspections.

EudraCT No.: 2015-005043-13                                                                      Page 51 of 69
