RATE-AF Trial Protocol                                                        Version 3.0, 25th July 2019


        prepare the groundwork for a future cost-per-quality adjusted life year (QALY) analysis of rate-
        control in AF.

        Costs of care will be derived from patient level resource-use data, focusing on secondary care
        costs, and including adverse effects, such as pacemaker implantation. Other major drivers of cost
        are hospitalisation (including visits to Accident & Emergency), unplanned outpatient visits and
        outpatient tests such as echocardiography or ambulatory ECG. The cost analysis will also consider
        therapy costs, both trial drug and additional treatments. Unit costs will be obtained from standard
        sources including NHS Reference Costs, Unit Costs of Health and Social Care96 and health care
        providers. Total per-patient health care costs will initially be calculated thus allowing the estimation
        of mean costs per trial arm over 12 months follow-up. Responses to the EQ-5D-5L questionnaire
        at baseline, visit 2 (6 months) and visit 3 (12 months) will be used to plan a future QALY analysis.


        Key feasibility elements are:
            x   Determining the best methods for obtaining hospitalisation data, including where
                participants have been hospitalised outside of research site

            x   Whether robust primary care costs can be estimated and the method(s) for acquiring this
                type of data
            x   How key cost drivers can be incorporated into data collection for any future trial



        9.9 Heart rate and physical activity monitoring

        Secondary objectives of the RATE-AF trial include assessment of heart rate and physical
        functioning. Conventional measures of obtaining this information include periodic measurement of
        pulse rate; apex beat rate and ECG data, and 6-minute walk tests and activity questionnaires
        respectively. These type of measures are limited to specific time points, and are unable to explore
        the interaction of heart rate with physical activity in the patients’ normal environment. To obtain
        more detailed information, RATE-AF trial participants will be asked to join an optional sub-study
        which uses a wearable device connected to a smartphone for a period of 6-12 months. Potential
        participants will be given a specific Patient Information Leaflet written by the RATE-AF Patient and
        Public Involvement Team, and asked to sign the RATE-AF optional consent form. Our intention is
        to enrol 75-100 participants to this sub-study, either at baseline or follow-up visits. The technology
        for this research is supported by funding from an Innovative Medicines Initiative European Union
        Horizon 2020 grant (BigData@Heart; https://www.bigdata-heart.eu/).97 The work will be a
        collaboration between the University of Birmingham, University College London and Utrecht
        Medical Centre (the Netherlands), in addition to the Hyve (an IT support company based in the
        Netherlands), who are all major partners in this initiative.


        Wearable device:
        A commercially-available wrist-worn device will be used that measures physical activity
        (movement, activity, physical exercise and step count) and sleep (sleep efficiency, latency, wake

EudraCT No.: 2015-005043-13                                                                     Page 43 of 69
