RATE-AF Trial Protocol                                                        Version 3.0, 25th July 2019


        of care to long-term outcomes that are routinely collected in clinical data but which may be collected
        during the follow-up period of the trial.

        This trial will also have optional consent for two sub-studies, further details can be found in Section
        9.9 and 9.10. Participants already recruited to RATE-AF trial will have the opportunity to consent
        to these additional sub-studies if they wish.

        Details of the informed consent discussions will be recorded in the participant’s medical notes. This
        will include date of discussion, the name of the trial, summary of discussion, version number of the
        PIL given to participant and version number of ICF signed and date consent received. Where
        consent is obtained on the same day that the trial related assessments are due to start, a note will
        be made in the medical notes as to what time the consent was obtained and what time the
        procedures started.

        At each visit the participant’s willingness to continue in the trial will be ascertained and documented
        in the medical notes. Throughout the trial the participant will have the opportunity to ask questions
        about the trial. Any new information that may be relevant to the participant’s continued participation
        will be provided. Where new information becomes available which may affect the participants’
        decision to continue, participants will be given time to consider and if happy to continue will be re-
        consented. Re-consent will be documented in the medical notes. The participant’s right to withdraw
        from the trial will remain.

        Electronic copies of the PIL and ICF will be available from the Trials Office and will be presented
        on the headed paper of the local institution. Details of all participants approached about the trial
        will be recorded on the Participant Screening/Enrolment Log and with the participant’s prior
        consent, their General Practitioner (GP) will also be informed that they are taking part in the trial.



                  Enrolment and Randomisation

        A flowchart of the recruitment process is shown in the Trial Schema (Figure 1) together with the
        schedule of investigation. Section 9 gives more detailed information of trial procedures and
        assessments.

        In the majority, potentially eligible participants will be identified by their Cardiologist, usually
        following referral from their General Practitioner (GP), and provided with an ethically-approved
        patient information leaflet (PIL). The patient will then be invited to attend a baseline visit at the
        NIHR Wellcome Trust Clinical Research Facility (WTCRF) at Queen Elizabeth Hospital,
        Birmingham. Potentially eligible participants may also be identified from inpatient referrals; these
        patients will be provided with a PIL and invited to attend a baseline visit following the same
        procedure.

        GP Practices in the Birmingham area may be asked to refer patients that present with AF, but are
        not on medication, to the RATE-AF Research Team at University Hospitals Birmingham (UHB).
        These patients will be given a one-page, ethics committee-approved trial summary and asked to
EudraCT No.: 2015-005043-13                                                                     Page 25 of 69
