RATE-AF Trial Protocol

x

Version 3.0, 25th July 2019

A current diagnosis of obstructive hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, myocarditis or
constrictive pericarditis

x

Received or on waiting list for heart transplantation

x

Receiving renal replacement therapy

x

Major surgery, including thoracic or cardiac surgery, within 3 months of randomisation

x

Severe, concomitant non-cardiovascular disease (including malignancy) that is
expected to reduce life expectancy

Informed Consent Process
It will be the responsibility of the Investigator to obtain written informed consent for each participant
prior to performing any trial related procedure. If local practice allows, this responsibility may be
delegated by the Principal Investigator, to a Research Nurse as captured on the Site Signature and
Delegation Log. A Participant Information Leaflet (PIL) will be provided to facilitate this process.
Investigators or delegate(s) will ensure that they adequately explain the aim, trial treatment,
anticipated benefits and potential hazards of taking part in the trial to the participant. They will also
stress that participation is voluntary and that the participant is free to refuse to take part and may
withdraw from the trial at any time. The participant will be given adequate time to read the PIL and
to discuss their participation with others outside of the site research team. The participant will be
given the opportunity to ask questions.
If the participant expresses an interest in participating in the trial they will be asked to sign and date
the latest version of the Informed Consent Form (ICF). The participant must give explicit consent
for the regulatory authorities, members of the research team and representatives of the sponsor to
be given direct access to the participant’s medical records.
The Investigator or delegate(s) will then sign and date the form. A copy of the ICF will be given to
the participant, a copy will be filed in the medical notes, and the original placed in the Investigator
Site File (ISF). Once the participant is entered into the trial, the participant’s unique trial
identification number will be entered on the ICF maintained in the ISF. As part of the consent
process, the participant will be asked to give explicit consent to their trial-related information being
sent to the Trials Office at the University of Birmingham.
This trial will include optional consent to allow linkage to patient data available in NHS routine
clinical datasets, including primary care data (e.g. Clinical Practice Research Datalink; CPRD, The
Health Improvement Network; THIN, QResearch), secondary care data (Hospital Episode
Statistics; HES) and mortality data from the Office of National Statistics (ONS) through NHS Digital
and other central UK bodies. The consent will also allow access to other new central UK NHS
databases that will appear in the future. This will allow us to double check the main outcomes
against routine data sources, and extend the follow-up of patients in the trial and collect long-term
outcome and health resource usage data without needing further contact with the trial
participants. This is important as it will link a trial of treatments that may become a clinical standard
EudraCT No.: 2015-005043-13

Page 24 of 69

