Version 3.0, 25th July 2019

RATE-AF Trial Protocol

x

Number of withdrawals and losses to follow-up (with reasons)

x

Drug discontinuation rate and adverse reactions requiring drug discontinuation.

x

Number of patients needing therapy-induced requirement for additional treatment

x

Population-specific standard deviations (SD) and proportions

x

o

SD of SF36 physical functioning score at 6 and 12 months

o

SD of SF36 overall score at 6 and 12 months

o

SD of AFEQT overall score at 6 and 12 months

o

SD of LVEF and E/e’ score at 6 and 12 months

o

Unplanned hospitalisation admissions rates

Cardiovascular Events (particularly mortality, thromboembolic events, myocardial
infarction and cardiovascular interventions)

The final analyses will follow a pre-specified analysis plan, drafted in conjunction with the
Birmingham Clinical Trials Unit and submitted to the steering committee at the penultimate meeting.
We intend to perform a primary intention-to-treat analysis, in addition to a per-protocol analysis.
Any additional (exploratory) analyses will be explicitly labelled as such in any subsequent
manuscript.

12.2 Power Calculations
Randomising 144 patients we can assume an 85% power to detect an effect size of half a standard
deviation in a continuous outcome measure of QoL (two-sided alpha of 0.05). A sample size of
160 patients would account for an estimated 10% loss to follow-up (including withdrawal and death
prior to 12-month assessment). There is some evidence from existing research to support the
notion that the treatment effect could be this large. The mean SF-36 role-physical score from the
rate-control arm of the RACE study was 47, with a 17% improvement with rate-control over time.62
In another study, CCB resulted in 22% improvement in a proprietary symptom-checklist, compared
to a non-significant 8% change in those assigned to beta-blockers (SD 10-points in both groups).
These values are also consistent with a 17% improvement in SF-36 scores in a third trial, PIAF.63
Thus whilst it is possible that this trial may provide a clear indication of effect, it is accepted that
the trial will be underpowered to detect smaller differences, reinforcing the requirement for a larger
definitive trial which would also be powered to assess impact on clinical event rates.

12.3 Statistical analysis
A separate Statistical Analysis Plan for the RATE-AF trial provides a detailed description of the
planned statistical analyses. A brief outline of these analyses is given below.
The primary comparison groups will be composed of those who are randomised to digoxin group
and those randomised to the beta-blockers group. All analyses will be based on the intention to
EudraCT No.: 2015-005043-13

Page 55 of 69

