RATE-AF Trial Protocol

Version 3.0, 25th July 2019

8.7 Withdrawal
Participants may withdraw at any time during the main RATE-AF trial if they choose not to continue
or if their clinical team feel that continued participation in the trial is inappropriate.
An investigator may deem it necessary to withdraw a participant from the trial if:
1) Any clinical adverse event, laboratory abnormality, or other medical condition or situation
occurs such that continued participation in the trial would not be in the best interest of the
participant.
2) The participant meets an exclusion criterion (either newly developed or not previously
recognised) that precludes further trial participation.
Full details of the reason(s) for withdrawal should be recorded on the Case Report Forms (CRFs)
if healthcare professional-initiated, otherwise a simple statement reflecting patient preference will
suffice.
Clear distinction will be made between withdrawals from trial treatments whilst allowing further
follow-up, and any participants who refuse any follow-up. If a participant explicitly withdraws
consent to any further data recording, then this decision will be respected. All communications
surrounding the withdrawal will be noted in the participant’s records and no further data will be
collected for the participant.
In the case of missing echocardiographic outcome data due to withdrawal (but with consent for
ongoing follow-up) or death, results of recent clinical echocardiography will be retrieved. The
participant’s permission to obtain such data will be obtained and documented during the consent
process. As with all trial echocardiograms, the scan will be reported by the core echocardiographic
laboratory. With respect to patient-reported outcomes, QoL questionnaires will be mailed to
participants who withdraw from trial treatment but consent to ongoing follow up. Those patients
where adverse symptoms were related to withdrawal will be invited to a focus group for further
discussion.

8.8 Trial Duration
Patients will be on trial medication for 12 months and will be followed-up, during this period
according to the protocol. At the end of the 12 months, the participants may, as determined by
their clinician, continue on medication but it will not be considered part of the trial intervention. The
trial will cease when the 12-month follow-up has been completed for the last participant recruited.

EudraCT No.: 2015-005043-13

Page 34 of 69

