RATE-AF Trial Protocol

Version 3.0, 25th July 2019

11.4 Notification of Serious Breaches
In accordance with Regulation 29A of the Medicines for Human Use (Clinical Trials) Regulations
2004 and its amendments the Sponsor of the trial is responsible for notifying the licensing authority
in writing of any serious breach of the conditions and principles of GCP in connection with that trial
or the protocol relating to that trial, within 7 days of becoming aware of that breach.
For the purposes of this regulation, a “serious breach” is a breach which is likely to effect to a
significant degree the safety or physical or mental integrity of the participants of the trial; or the
scientific value of the trial. Sites are therefore requested to notify the Trials office of any suspected
trial-related serious breach of GCP and/or the trial protocol. Where the Trials Office is investigating
whether or not a serious breach has occurred sites are also requested to cooperate with the Trials
Office in providing sufficient information to report the breach to the MHRA where required and in
undertaking any corrective and/or preventive action. Sites may be suspended from further
recruitment in the event of serious and persistent non-compliance with the protocol and/or GCP,
and/or poor recruitment. Any major problems identified during monitoring may be reported to Trial
Management Group and Trial Oversight Committee, the REC and the relevant regulatory bodies.
This includes reporting serious breaches of GCP and/or the trial protocol to the REC and MHRA.
A copy is sent to the University of Birmingham Clinical Research Compliance Team at the time of
reporting to the REC and/or relevant regulatory bodies.

11.5 Data Handling and Analysis
Paper CRFs must be completed from source, signed and dated by members of the site research
team. CRFs will then be entered directly on to the RATE-AF database by members of the RATEAF Trial Office. Randomisation of the trial must be completed by an authorised member of the site
research team (as delegated on the RATE-AF Trial Signature and Delegation Log) within the
timeframe listed in Table 5. Copies of all completed CRFs should be filed in the site file. Entries
on paper CRFs should be made in ballpoint pen, in black ink, and must be legible. Any errors
should be crossed out with a single stroke, the correction inserted and the change initialled and
dated. If it is not obvious why a change has been made, an explanation should be written next to
the change.
CRFs can be entered by CTU staff or viewed online by site staff at
http://www.bctu.bham.ac.uk/RATEAF. Authorised staff at sites will require an individual secure
login username and password to access this online data system.
Data reported on each CRF should be consistent with the source data or the discrepancies should
be explained. If information is not known, this must be clearly indicated on the CRF. All missing
and ambiguous data will be queried as detailed in the Trial Data Management Plan. All sections
are to be completed.

EudraCT No.: 2015-005043-13

Page 52 of 69

