As a result of the ad campaign, some participants calling us may not have a
family physician available to guide them through the medication timing
change process (if required). In order to accommodate these participants,
we have created a set of guidelines that can allow some participants to self-
change their medication timing if they are medically simple. These
guidelines were created in consultation with our collaborator Dr. Raj Padwal
(Director of the Hypertension Clinic at the University of Alberta and the past
Chair of the Hypertension Canada CHEP Guidelines Task Force) and Dr.
James Wright (Hypertension Specialist and Coordinating Editor of the
Cochrane Collaboration's Hypertension Review Group). Dr. Wright's letter of
support for our proposed method of guiding medically simple patients to
make their own timing change is attached. Medically complex participants
without a family physician can also participate in the study, but such
patients will be guided through the process over the phone by a BedMed
associated physician or pharmacist.

This medication self-timing change is available to all participants in the
study if they are medically simple. This includes participants who do not
want to visit their family physician and participants whose family physicians
have asked as to provide this service to patients deemed medically simple.
Participants can always opt for a physician-guided change if they prefer to
do so, even if they are deemed medically simple.

If a participant elects for a self-timing change, RAs will use the established
algorithm to change the timing of up to 2 blood pressure medications, one
at a time as tolerated, with at least a month between changes and a follow-
up telephone call one week after each change. If any adverse effects are
reported, a BedMed physician or pharmacist will speak directly with the
participant. RAs will not change the timing of Alpha Blockers as these drugs
are more often prescribed for benign prostatic hypertrophy than to lower
blood pressure.

Medically simple patients, for the purpose of this protocol, must 1) state to
the RA that they have never had any heart related issues of any kind, 2) must
not use Tiazac XC (which is a delayed release medication whose timing is
more complex), 3) must not use furosemide (which is often in use for
reasons other than hypertension), 4) must not use BID antihypertensives
(whose timing may be more difficult to change), and 5) must use no more
than 2 antihypertensives, excluding alpha blockers (to avoid working with
patients who have resistant hypertension).

If patients are medically simple and comfortable being guided to make their
own timing change the RA will switch medications in the order ABCD
(ACEI/ARB, beta-blocker, calcium channel blocker, diuretic).

The process may be visualized in the submitted BedMed Patient Flow &
Medication Change Process document. An algorithm embedded in the
REDCap Database will check the criteria for each patient and display a "go
or no-go" message for self-change eligibility. The system will also guide the
actual process for the RA in a step-by-step manner. (Screenshots attached
in Documentation)
Also included are the screenshots of the Month 12 Interview Questions.
These are a repeat of the Week 6 questions already approved.
