Intervention: Switching (one at a time as tolerated) one or more morning BP meds to BEDTIME
(or maintaining bedtime BP meds if already taken at that time). All decisions related to which, and
how many, medications to switch are at the discretion of the care provider.
Comparator: Maintaining (or switching to) morning BP medication use.
Outcomes: The SPOR Data Platform is partnering with us to provide the administrative claims
data that define most of our outcomes. Other outcomes come from participant telephone interview.
The SPOR Data Platform will monitor our primary outcomes quarterly during the trial, and the trial
will conclude once 406 participants have experienced primary outcome events. Outcomes include:
Primary: Composite of all-cause death and hospital admission or emergency department visit for
acute coronary syndrome/MI, heart failure, or stroke (validated coding algorithms for each17-19).
Secondary: 1) Each element of the primary outcome on its own; 2) All-cause hospital admission;
3) Resource intensity weight & length of stay; 4) Nursing home admission; 5) Self-reported Quality
of Life (from EQ-5D: 5 functional health measures and patient’s self-reported overall health score).
Safety: 1) New diagnosis of glaucoma; 2) Glaucoma surgery; 3) Hip fracture; 4) Self-reported
worsening of vision (since study start - unchanged, slightly worse, much worse); 5) Self-reported
Syncope/fainting (prior month - yes/no); 6) Self-reported falls (prior month - yes/no).
Tolerability: 1) Number of overnight urinations; 2) Self-reported nocturia burden (prior month - no
problem, minor problem, major problem); 3) Light-headed or feeling “faint” (prior month - yes/no).
Process: 1) Proportion of baseline BP meds switched to bedtime at 6 months - broken down by
antihypertensive class; 2) 24-hour Ambulatory BP at 6 months (see Sub-Studies section below).
Sample Size Estimate:
Number of primary outcome events to stop the study: We are planning a survival analysis with 1:1
allocation and want to detect a 25% relative risk reduction with probability (power) 0.8 and Type I
error probability α=0.05. This requires 379 events (conservatively assuming no useful covariates).
We will increase this by 7% to 406 primary outcome events in order to account for withdrawals,
noncompliance and loss to follow-up (which combined are projected to be 5% in our pilot study).
Expected event rate: Utilizing Canadian administrative claims data for 2005/061,2 we are able to
predict (individually) the rates of mortality, and hospitalization for stroke, MI and CHF in a
hypertensive cohort with the same age distribution as hypertensive Canadians (detailed
calculations available on request). Although individually these estimates are robust, if we were to
combine them together they would overestimate occurrence of our primary outcome because: 1)
our survival analysis looks at time to first event and some of the predicted events will occur in the
same individual; and 2) age specific rates of cardiovascular mortality and morbidity have been
steadily falling since the 1970s and rates in 2016 are likely to be lower than those from 2006.1
Countering this is our expectation that older (retired) patients are more likely to participate in a trial
such as this. To avoid over counting in estimating our event rate we have used only hospitalization
for stroke, CHF and MI (and excluded death) when powering. We did this believing death to be the
most likely event to overlap the others. The 2006 to 2016 reduction in CVD risk and the potential
greater proportion of retirees responding to our recruitment have opposite effects on event rates
and should, at least partially, balance out. Altogether this gives us an expected event rate in
controls of 2.9% and an expected event rate in the overall trial population of 2.0% (conservatively
assuming MAPEC-like risk reduction to produce the smallest possible overall event rate).
Sample size / Study duration: We are budgeting to enrol 35 patients per day. Assuming steady
enrolment (50 weeks/yr) until sample size is met, 8,750 subjects enrolled over 12 months and
followed for another 22 months is expected to provide the required 406 primary outcomes.
Recruitment / Patient Flow: Community family physicians (members of the Pragmatic Trials
Collaborative) have already been recruited to participate in pragmatic trials like this by Drs.
Garrison, Allan, Kolber, and Korownyk (see “Feasibility”). Patient flow steps: (see Appendix pg. 2)
1. Identifying Patients: Using billing / EMR software, providers produce a list of hypertensive
   patients and remove anyone they feel is palliative or incapable of informed consent.
