                                      BedMed Protocol

Problem Statement: In Canada cardiovascular disease (CVD), most notably heart attack (MI),
stroke and congestive heart failure (CHF) accounts for 1 in 3 deaths, and 1 in 6 hospitalizations.1
Hypertension, a modifiable risk factor, predisposes patients to all types of CVD and 19% of adult
Albertans are hypertensive.2 Using population-based Alberta administrative data (2002 to 2010)
and using a regression model that accounts for comorbidities and socioeconomic factors, it was
recently estimated that Alberta healthcare costs attributable to hypertension were $1.4 billion in
2010.3 If high blood pressure can be reduced in a way that is more effective at preventing these
life threatening and potentially disabling events, better health outcomes and substantial cost
savings are possible.
Background: Blood pressure (BP) normally exhibits a circadian rhythm with relatively lower
pressures during sleep.4 Lack of this sleep time “dip” correlates strongly with adverse
cardiovascular events and BP correlates most strongly with such events when measured at night
(i.e. during sleep).5-8 Motivated by such observations, Spanish researchers studied the effect of
taking BP medication at BEDTIME (when the effect on nighttime BP would be greatest) versus
conventional morning use, when most BP medications (meds) are taken. The results of this study
(the MAPEC trial) were striking.9 Over a median 5.6 years follow-up, adverse cardiovascular
events occurred in 187 of 1084 subjects taking BP medication in the morning but only 68 of 1072
subjects who took their BP medication at bedtime (relative risk 0.39, 95%CI [0.29-0.51], p <
0.001). This 61% reduction in adverse events was similar for all individual components of the
primary outcome (including death from all causes, stroke, MI, new angina pectoris, CHF and
occlusion of the retinal artery). If true, a switch to bedtime prescribing would have more impact on
the health of hypertensive Albertans than whether high BP is treated at all.
And yet this trial failed to change practice. This is because 1) most physicians are unaware of the
findings; and 2) replication of such surprising results is required for these findings to be
believed – primarily because the benefit seems “too good to be true”, far exceeding all other
methods of CVD risk reduction (e.g. high dose statins convey a 35% relative risk reduction,
morning BP meds 30%, exercise 25%, aspirin 15%).10 Neither a relatively recent (Oct 2013)
literature review, nor a 2011 Cochrane systematic review found any RCTs (besides MAPEC)
evaluating the effect of BP medication timing on “hard” endpoints.11,12 The only other published
trials looking at the timing of BP medication examine its effect on blood pressure – not on
cardiovascular events. The National Institute of Health recently funded a planning grant for a trial
looking at patient oriented outcomes (e.g. stroke, MI, CHF) but that trial has yet to be registered.11
Objectives:
A) To determine if switching one or more BP meds to bedtime alters important clinical outcomes.
B) To identify populations (e.g. frail elderly) that might be put at risk by bedtime administration.
C) To determine whether diuretics can be successfully taken at night without excessive urination
(this objective is in response to questions raised during our patient engagement).
D) To determine differences in acute care costs between AM and bedtime antihypertensive users.
E) To disseminate our learning throughout the province and (if benefit is confirmed) lead
widespread adoption of bedtime prescribing in patients that can be expected to benefit.
Design: Event-driven Prospective Randomized Open Blinded End-Point (PROBE) Study.13
Population: Community dwelling hypertensive Albertans who use BP medication.
Inclusion Criteria: 1) Hypertension diagnosis; 2) ≥ 1 BP medication; 3) Community Dwelling
Exclusion Criteria: 1) Palliative; 2) Unable to provide informed consent; 3) Personal history of
glaucoma or use of glaucoma medications. Glaucoma is an exclusion because nocturnal
hypotension (i.e. excessively low blood pressure while sleeping) has been associated with
ischemic optic neuropathy in such patients.14-16
