participating family physicians. This involves Alberta Health Services (AHS)
creating these two cohorts for us to compare to. All of this has already been
approved.

In order to build the cohort of eligible patients attached to participating
practices (of which there will be around 70,000), the AHS analyst carrying
out the work needs to use the family physician "PracIDs" to identify their
eligible patients. The PracID is created by Alberta Health to identify
physicians within the administrative claims data. The problem for which this
amendment is being generated is that PracID is one of the few things AHS
does not have access to in the administrative claims data without explicit
approval from Alberta Health to use it. Alberta Health is willing to give this
approval but they have requested us to do 2 things first.

1) They want us to send an e-mail to all the physician participants asking
them to let us know if they object to AHS using their PracID – i.e. to let us
know if they want to opt out of that information sharing, with the default
being that the PracID will be shared if no objection is voiced.

2) They have asked us to ensure that we have a waiver of consent for this
sub-study from the ethics board. i.e. That we do not need to obtain consent
from individuals within the two administrative claims data derived
comparison cohorts, nor do we need to obtain specific consent for the
sharing of the PracID from the physicians who are already participating in
the study.

To be clear, we are not changing anything in the sub-study other than
specifying that Alberta Health will permit Alberta Health Services access to
the PracIDs of the participating physicians and that we will let the
physicians know this is happening, with an opportunity to opt out if they
don’t want it to occur.

Relevant to this, is that the analysis is carried out entirely by the data
steward, that researchers never see patient level data, and that the smallest
of the two comparison cohorts (eligible patients attached to participating
practices) will have around 70,000 individuals contributing data. We are not
collecting or reporting any information about participating physicians.
Merely using the PracID to create the cohort of attached eligible patients.

Also relevant is that, we believe, the participating physicians would have
assumed, as we did, that AHS already had access to this information. We
have been told by AH that their intention is for the AHS-AH information
sharing agreement to be updated to include AHS having access to physician
PracID, but this will not occur in the time frame of our study.

Within the ethics application, for the purpose of this amendment, we made
a single addition at the end of:
2.1 Study Objectives and Design
5.0 For clinical trials, describe any sub-studies associated with this protocol
Which reads:

AMENDMENT May 21 2021. To create the previously described cohort of
eligible individuals attached to participating practices it is necessary for
