   participation in BedMed - as this trial holds greater interest for clinicians than our pilot. Dr. Allan
   also co-hosts a popular medical podcast (Best Science Medicine) through which FP enrolment
   can be enhanced and the AMA’s Primary Care Network Program Management Office (PCN
   PMO) has agreed to assist physician recruitment using 3 different newsletters that reach all
   PCN physicians. We are well positioned to recruit for this trial. Additionally, we will work with
   the Alberta Strategy for Patient Oriented Research – Primary Integrated Health Care
   Innovation Network (SPOR-PIHCIN), to use the hoped for PRIHS3 grant as matching funds for
   an upcoming CIHR Phase III SPOR competition. As we already have a functioning network in
   BC, and as Dr. Alex Singer, the Manitoba CPCSSN lead (Canadian Primary Care Sentinel
   Surveillance Network) has approached us about running BedMed in Manitoba CPCSSN
   practices, we are well positioned to expand to other provinces.
2. Patient Enrolment: Based on an evaluation of six typical fee-for-service family practices, we
   estimate the average family practice to contain roughly 250 hypertensive patients. This is
   consistent with the average size of a FP practice (1500 - 1800 patients) and the prevalence of
   hypertension in adult Albertans (19.6%). In INRange, 20.4% of patients receiving letters from
   their family physician called to enroll in the trial. BedMed patients will be younger (on average)
   than those in INRange and may be less likely to respond to a letter from their doctor. Patients
   already taking BP meds at bedtime may also be disinclined to participate. Hence, although a
   similar response is possible, we will conservatively plan for only 12% patient response. We
   plan to engage 365 physicians (a number that is already within the reach of our membership),
   who will send letters to 250 patients each. We expect 85% to use BP meds, and 12% to be
   interested and eligible. Thus we expect to enroll 8,750 patients from 91,250 mailed letters.
3. Study Duration: We are budgeting to enroll 35 patients per workday (with 50% of the working
   hours of 3 research assistants dedicated to telephone enrolment). At this anticipated
   recruitment rate we will enroll all 8,750 patients over 1 year. This would reach our target # of
   primary outcomes to stop the trial 2 years and 43 weeks from the start of enrolment. However
   this is a conservative estimate based on the lowest possible (MAPEC-like risk reduction) event
   rate. If instead the 25% relative risk reduction we powered for is found, events will accumulate
   much more quickly and the trial will end 6 months sooner (at 2 years 4 months). If the benefit
   exceeds a 25% relative risk reduction, it is also possible that the trial will terminate for benefit at
   the interim analysis (if the true benefit is a 37% reduction in events there is a 50% probability
   that a p of ≤ 0.001 will be observed at the 20 month DSMB review). Also, if we are successful
   in the SPOR PIHCIN competition, we would expect higher (and faster) enrolment and hence a
   shorter wait to reach the event target which determines trial duration. We expect the trial to
   complete, and the broader province-wide implementation phase to begin (allowing 2-3 months
   for analysis), at some point 23 to 36 months after the start of enrolment.
Supporters: This project’s key commitment comes from: 1) the volunteer primary care providers
of the Pragmatic Trials Collaborative, whose lead is PI of this application (Garrison); 2) the Alberta
SPOR Data Platform, whose Lead is a collaborator (McAlister); 3) the U of A EBM Knowledge
Translation Team (Allan - co-PI, Korownyk, Kolber - collaborators); 4) the Health Quality Council of
Alberta, whose Director of Health System Analytics is a collaborator (Lahtinen); and 5) the Alberta
PCNs, connected through another collaborator (Lewanczuk) who is AHS Senior Medical Director
for Primary and Community Care. We have also obtained support from 3 Scientific Clinical
Networks (SCNs), the Alberta College of Family Physicians, the Rural Physician Action Plan, the
AMA, the SPOR Pragmatic Clinical Trial Platform, the SPOR PIHCIN applicant group, the
Departments of Family Medicine at the University of Alberta and University of Calgary, and the
Cochrane Hypertension Review Group (who will serve as Data Safety Monitoring Board and
provided peer review for our ethics application).
Data Requirements: The Alberta SPOR Data Platform is partnering with us on the BedMed
Initiative and will provide all data extractions and required linkages with administrative holdings of
AHS DIMR (specific to our participants) including: 1) the Discharge Abstract Database (information
on all Alberta acute care hospitalizations - specifically discharge diagnoses, procedures, discharge
disposition, resource intensity weight, and length of stay); 2) the National Ambulatory Care
Database (information on all Alberta ER visits – specifically emergency department visit
