                                     TABLE OF CONTENTS

This supplement contains the following items:
    1. BedMed Protocol (version date May 2, 2016), as submiLed to the University of Alberta’s
       Health Research Ethics Board
    2. Log of all protocol amendments

*Note: The ﬁnal version of the BedMed protocol, along with the ﬁnal analysis plan, was
published on Feb 24, 2022 as: Garrison SR, Kolber MR, Allan GM, Bakal J, Green L, Singer A,
Trueman DR, McAlister FA, Padwal RS, Hill MD, Manns B, McGrail K, O'Neill B, Greiver M,
Froentjes LS, Manca DP, Mangin D, Wong ST, MacLean C, Kirkwood JE, McCracken R, McCormack
JP, Norris C, Korownyk T. BedLme versus morning use of anLhypertensives for cardiovascular risk
reducLon (BedMed): protocol for a prospecLve, randomised, open-label, blinded end-point
pragmaLc trial. BMJ Open. 2022 Feb 24;12(2):e059711. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2021-059711.
PMID: 35210352; PMCID: PMC8883279.
                                      BedMed Protocol

Problem Statement: In Canada cardiovascular disease (CVD), most notably heart attack (MI),
stroke and congestive heart failure (CHF) accounts for 1 in 3 deaths, and 1 in 6 hospitalizations.1
Hypertension, a modifiable risk factor, predisposes patients to all types of CVD and 19% of adult
Albertans are hypertensive.2 Using population-based Alberta administrative data (2002 to 2010)
and using a regression model that accounts for comorbidities and socioeconomic factors, it was
recently estimated that Alberta healthcare costs attributable to hypertension were $1.4 billion in
2010.3 If high blood pressure can be reduced in a way that is more effective at preventing these
life threatening and potentially disabling events, better health outcomes and substantial cost
savings are possible.
Background: Blood pressure (BP) normally exhibits a circadian rhythm with relatively lower
pressures during sleep.4 Lack of this sleep time “dip” correlates strongly with adverse
cardiovascular events and BP correlates most strongly with such events when measured at night
(i.e. during sleep).5-8 Motivated by such observations, Spanish researchers studied the effect of
taking BP medication at BEDTIME (when the effect on nighttime BP would be greatest) versus
conventional morning use, when most BP medications (meds) are taken. The results of this study
(the MAPEC trial) were striking.9 Over a median 5.6 years follow-up, adverse cardiovascular
events occurred in 187 of 1084 subjects taking BP medication in the morning but only 68 of 1072
subjects who took their BP medication at bedtime (relative risk 0.39, 95%CI [0.29-0.51], p <
0.001). This 61% reduction in adverse events was similar for all individual components of the
primary outcome (including death from all causes, stroke, MI, new angina pectoris, CHF and
occlusion of the retinal artery). If true, a switch to bedtime prescribing would have more impact on
the health of hypertensive Albertans than whether high BP is treated at all.
And yet this trial failed to change practice. This is because 1) most physicians are unaware of the
findings; and 2) replication of such surprising results is required for these findings to be
believed – primarily because the benefit seems “too good to be true”, far exceeding all other
methods of CVD risk reduction (e.g. high dose statins convey a 35% relative risk reduction,
morning BP meds 30%, exercise 25%, aspirin 15%).10 Neither a relatively recent (Oct 2013)
literature review, nor a 2011 Cochrane systematic review found any RCTs (besides MAPEC)
evaluating the effect of BP medication timing on “hard” endpoints.11,12 The only other published
trials looking at the timing of BP medication examine its effect on blood pressure – not on
cardiovascular events. The National Institute of Health recently funded a planning grant for a trial
looking at patient oriented outcomes (e.g. stroke, MI, CHF) but that trial has yet to be registered.11
Objectives:
A) To determine if switching one or more BP meds to bedtime alters important clinical outcomes.
B) To identify populations (e.g. frail elderly) that might be put at risk by bedtime administration.
C) To determine whether diuretics can be successfully taken at night without excessive urination
(this objective is in response to questions raised during our patient engagement).
D) To determine differences in acute care costs between AM and bedtime antihypertensive users.
E) To disseminate our learning throughout the province and (if benefit is confirmed) lead
widespread adoption of bedtime prescribing in patients that can be expected to benefit.
Design: Event-driven Prospective Randomized Open Blinded End-Point (PROBE) Study.13
Population: Community dwelling hypertensive Albertans who use BP medication.
Inclusion Criteria: 1) Hypertension diagnosis; 2) ≥ 1 BP medication; 3) Community Dwelling
Exclusion Criteria: 1) Palliative; 2) Unable to provide informed consent; 3) Personal history of
glaucoma or use of glaucoma medications. Glaucoma is an exclusion because nocturnal
hypotension (i.e. excessively low blood pressure while sleeping) has been associated with
ischemic optic neuropathy in such patients.14-16
Intervention: Switching (one at a time as tolerated) one or more morning BP meds to BEDTIME
(or maintaining bedtime BP meds if already taken at that time). All decisions related to which, and
how many, medications to switch are at the discretion of the care provider.
Comparator: Maintaining (or switching to) morning BP medication use.
Outcomes: The SPOR Data Platform is partnering with us to provide the administrative claims
data that define most of our outcomes. Other outcomes come from participant telephone interview.
The SPOR Data Platform will monitor our primary outcomes quarterly during the trial, and the trial
will conclude once 406 participants have experienced primary outcome events. Outcomes include:
Primary: Composite of all-cause death and hospital admission or emergency department visit for
acute coronary syndrome/MI, heart failure, or stroke (validated coding algorithms for each17-19).
Secondary: 1) Each element of the primary outcome on its own; 2) All-cause hospital admission;
3) Resource intensity weight & length of stay; 4) Nursing home admission; 5) Self-reported Quality
of Life (from EQ-5D: 5 functional health measures and patient’s self-reported overall health score).
Safety: 1) New diagnosis of glaucoma; 2) Glaucoma surgery; 3) Hip fracture; 4) Self-reported
worsening of vision (since study start - unchanged, slightly worse, much worse); 5) Self-reported
Syncope/fainting (prior month - yes/no); 6) Self-reported falls (prior month - yes/no).
Tolerability: 1) Number of overnight urinations; 2) Self-reported nocturia burden (prior month - no
problem, minor problem, major problem); 3) Light-headed or feeling “faint” (prior month - yes/no).
Process: 1) Proportion of baseline BP meds switched to bedtime at 6 months - broken down by
antihypertensive class; 2) 24-hour Ambulatory BP at 6 months (see Sub-Studies section below).
Sample Size Estimate:
Number of primary outcome events to stop the study: We are planning a survival analysis with 1:1
allocation and want to detect a 25% relative risk reduction with probability (power) 0.8 and Type I
error probability α=0.05. This requires 379 events (conservatively assuming no useful covariates).
We will increase this by 7% to 406 primary outcome events in order to account for withdrawals,
noncompliance and loss to follow-up (which combined are projected to be 5% in our pilot study).
Expected event rate: Utilizing Canadian administrative claims data for 2005/061,2 we are able to
predict (individually) the rates of mortality, and hospitalization for stroke, MI and CHF in a
hypertensive cohort with the same age distribution as hypertensive Canadians (detailed
calculations available on request). Although individually these estimates are robust, if we were to
combine them together they would overestimate occurrence of our primary outcome because: 1)
our survival analysis looks at time to first event and some of the predicted events will occur in the
same individual; and 2) age specific rates of cardiovascular mortality and morbidity have been
steadily falling since the 1970s and rates in 2016 are likely to be lower than those from 2006.1
Countering this is our expectation that older (retired) patients are more likely to participate in a trial
such as this. To avoid over counting in estimating our event rate we have used only hospitalization
for stroke, CHF and MI (and excluded death) when powering. We did this believing death to be the
most likely event to overlap the others. The 2006 to 2016 reduction in CVD risk and the potential
greater proportion of retirees responding to our recruitment have opposite effects on event rates
and should, at least partially, balance out. Altogether this gives us an expected event rate in
controls of 2.9% and an expected event rate in the overall trial population of 2.0% (conservatively
assuming MAPEC-like risk reduction to produce the smallest possible overall event rate).
Sample size / Study duration: We are budgeting to enrol 35 patients per day. Assuming steady
enrolment (50 weeks/yr) until sample size is met, 8,750 subjects enrolled over 12 months and
followed for another 22 months is expected to provide the required 406 primary outcomes.
Recruitment / Patient Flow: Community family physicians (members of the Pragmatic Trials
Collaborative) have already been recruited to participate in pragmatic trials like this by Drs.
Garrison, Allan, Kolber, and Korownyk (see “Feasibility”). Patient flow steps: (see Appendix pg. 2)
1. Identifying Patients: Using billing / EMR software, providers produce a list of hypertensive
   patients and remove anyone they feel is palliative or incapable of informed consent.
2. Informing Patients: The study team gives providers one pre-stuffed envelope for every patient
   on their list. Provider offices affix patient address labels and mail the letters. Patient envelopes
   contain: 1) a letter of introduction from their physician; 2) a study information sheet with phone
   number reaching our study team; 3) a consent form with postage paid return envelope; and 4)
   a "provider work sheet” (see appendix page 1).
3. Consenting Patients: The study team dialogs with patients calling the contact number and
   obtains consent (online using REDCap or by return post) if interested and eligible. After
   consent 1) baseline characteristics not available in administrative data are collected such as
   smoking status, and frailty status according to the Tilburg Frailty Indicator20-22, and 2)
   participants are asked to make (and advise us of) a study specific BP visit with their provider.
4. Allocation: Upon calling us back with the date of their provider appointment (demonstrating
   commitment), patients dialog directly with a research assistant with no clinical patient
   interaction who obtains their allocation to treatment or control (via a simple randomization – no
   stratification or blocking) from the central REDCapTM server’s randomization module (which
   ensures irreversible and concealed allocation). Patients are also walked through 1) writing a list
   of current BP meds at the top of the provider worksheet and 2) circling the worksheet’s
   allocated treatment arm (either “use BP meds in morning” or “use BP meds at bedtime”).
5. Intervention: The patient arrives at their provider’s office for the scheduled follow-up visit and
   hands them the provider worksheet. Providers observe the allocation (and the list of current BP
   meds), adjust medications as necessary and arrange clinical follow-up as per their judgment.
6. Study Follow-up: Post intervention, the study team calls patients at 1 week, 6 weeks, 6 months
   and every 6 months until study conclusion. After 6 months patients can opt for automated
   REDCap enabled on-line follow-up (chosen by 31% of patients in our pilot study), which
   improves study efficiency. These follow-up interactions supplement claims data to establish
   death and nursing home admission and collect data on adverse effects and patient experience.
Interim Analysis: An independent data safety monitoring board (DSMB) organized and chaired
by Jim Wright (Cochrane Hypertension Review Group Coordinating Editor) will review all available
data upon reaching 200 events (anticipated to occur at 20 months). If p is ≤ 0.001 for benefit, or p
is ≤ 0.05 for harm, the committee will apply clinical judgement to breaking the trial early.23
Sub-studies: 1) Achieved BP: 100 intervention and 100 control subjects will undergo 24-hour BP
monitoring at 6 months to determine BP differences between groups. 2) Diuretic tolerance: Upon
enrolment of 200 patients whose only BP med is a diuretic (including combination pills) we will
analyse, in all patients allocated to bedtime, 6-week compliance to allocation for all BP meds. If
diuretic compliance is substantially worse than other drugs our adaptive trial design24 will exclude
the enrolment of additional patients whose only BP medication is a diuretic.
Statistical Analysis: The primary outcome will be analysed by Cox Proportional Hazards Survival
Analysis using baseline covariates which include: age ≥ 80, sex, frailty (binary - from the Tilburg
Frailty Indicator20-22), cognitive impairment (binary - from the Short Blessed Test25-27), smoking
status, hospitalization in last 6 months, ≥3 baseline BP meds (resistant hypertension),
presence/absence of specific diagnoses (diabetes, CHF, stroke/TIA, coronary artery disease), and
significant renal impairment (a claims data renal insufficiency diagnosis, eGFR less than 40, or
dialysis).

Feasibility of Proposed Activities:
1. Physician Enrolment: Our trial network, known as the Pragmatic Trials Collaborative
   (www.PragmaticTrials.ca) and led by Dr. Garrison (our PI), recently completed enrolment of its
   first RCT (successfully piloting BedMed’s recruitment methods - albeit with a different
   question). This trial (INRange32), which examines the effect of the timing of warfarin ingestion
   on time in therapeutic INR range, had a remarkable 236 British Columbia (BC) and Alberta
   family physicians from 53 different communities mailing recruitment letters (78.4% in Alberta).
   This degree of physician engagement is unprecedented. To our knowledge, the largest
   published non-industry RCT relying on Canadian FPs to recruit patients involved 79
   physicians.33 INRange engaged triple that number. Our membership grew by 131 physicians
   last year and now numbers close to 400 across both provinces. And we expect higher
   participation in BedMed - as this trial holds greater interest for clinicians than our pilot. Dr. Allan
   also co-hosts a popular medical podcast (Best Science Medicine) through which FP enrolment
   can be enhanced and the AMA’s Primary Care Network Program Management Office (PCN
   PMO) has agreed to assist physician recruitment using 3 different newsletters that reach all
   PCN physicians. We are well positioned to recruit for this trial. Additionally, we will work with
   the Alberta Strategy for Patient Oriented Research – Primary Integrated Health Care
   Innovation Network (SPOR-PIHCIN), to use the hoped for PRIHS3 grant as matching funds for
   an upcoming CIHR Phase III SPOR competition. As we already have a functioning network in
   BC, and as Dr. Alex Singer, the Manitoba CPCSSN lead (Canadian Primary Care Sentinel
   Surveillance Network) has approached us about running BedMed in Manitoba CPCSSN
   practices, we are well positioned to expand to other provinces.
2. Patient Enrolment: Based on an evaluation of six typical fee-for-service family practices, we
   estimate the average family practice to contain roughly 250 hypertensive patients. This is
   consistent with the average size of a FP practice (1500 - 1800 patients) and the prevalence of
   hypertension in adult Albertans (19.6%). In INRange, 20.4% of patients receiving letters from
   their family physician called to enroll in the trial. BedMed patients will be younger (on average)
   than those in INRange and may be less likely to respond to a letter from their doctor. Patients
   already taking BP meds at bedtime may also be disinclined to participate. Hence, although a
   similar response is possible, we will conservatively plan for only 12% patient response. We
   plan to engage 365 physicians (a number that is already within the reach of our membership),
   who will send letters to 250 patients each. We expect 85% to use BP meds, and 12% to be
   interested and eligible. Thus we expect to enroll 8,750 patients from 91,250 mailed letters.
3. Study Duration: We are budgeting to enroll 35 patients per workday (with 50% of the working
   hours of 3 research assistants dedicated to telephone enrolment). At this anticipated
   recruitment rate we will enroll all 8,750 patients over 1 year. This would reach our target # of
   primary outcomes to stop the trial 2 years and 43 weeks from the start of enrolment. However
   this is a conservative estimate based on the lowest possible (MAPEC-like risk reduction) event
   rate. If instead the 25% relative risk reduction we powered for is found, events will accumulate
   much more quickly and the trial will end 6 months sooner (at 2 years 4 months). If the benefit
   exceeds a 25% relative risk reduction, it is also possible that the trial will terminate for benefit at
   the interim analysis (if the true benefit is a 37% reduction in events there is a 50% probability
   that a p of ≤ 0.001 will be observed at the 20 month DSMB review). Also, if we are successful
   in the SPOR PIHCIN competition, we would expect higher (and faster) enrolment and hence a
   shorter wait to reach the event target which determines trial duration. We expect the trial to
   complete, and the broader province-wide implementation phase to begin (allowing 2-3 months
   for analysis), at some point 23 to 36 months after the start of enrolment.
Supporters: This project’s key commitment comes from: 1) the volunteer primary care providers
of the Pragmatic Trials Collaborative, whose lead is PI of this application (Garrison); 2) the Alberta
SPOR Data Platform, whose Lead is a collaborator (McAlister); 3) the U of A EBM Knowledge
Translation Team (Allan - co-PI, Korownyk, Kolber - collaborators); 4) the Health Quality Council of
Alberta, whose Director of Health System Analytics is a collaborator (Lahtinen); and 5) the Alberta
PCNs, connected through another collaborator (Lewanczuk) who is AHS Senior Medical Director
for Primary and Community Care. We have also obtained support from 3 Scientific Clinical
Networks (SCNs), the Alberta College of Family Physicians, the Rural Physician Action Plan, the
AMA, the SPOR Pragmatic Clinical Trial Platform, the SPOR PIHCIN applicant group, the
Departments of Family Medicine at the University of Alberta and University of Calgary, and the
Cochrane Hypertension Review Group (who will serve as Data Safety Monitoring Board and
provided peer review for our ethics application).
Data Requirements: The Alberta SPOR Data Platform is partnering with us on the BedMed
Initiative and will provide all data extractions and required linkages with administrative holdings of
AHS DIMR (specific to our participants) including: 1) the Discharge Abstract Database (information
on all Alberta acute care hospitalizations - specifically discharge diagnoses, procedures, discharge
disposition, resource intensity weight, and length of stay); 2) the National Ambulatory Care
Database (information on all Alberta ER visits – specifically emergency department visit
diagnoses); 3) the Pharmaceutical Information Network Dispenses (all prescriptions dispensed by
participating community pharmacies - to be used in the cost analysis); and 4) outpatient laboratory
data (which, together with Netcare laboratory data, will provide information on the creatinine/eGFR
lab tests used to define renal insufficiency). All participants in our pragmatic trial will have provided
written informed consent for these records to be accessed.
In addition to the complete set of outcomes and baseline characteristics provided for the 20-month
interim analysis and for the full study, we will also receive from the SPOR Data Platform quarterly
reports on the occurrence of our primary outcome (confirmed in the attached letter of support from
Dr. McAlister, the Alberta SPOR Data Platform Lead) so that we will know when to end the study.

References

1.     S. Dai CB, A. Bienek, P. Walsh, P. Stewart, A. Wielgosz, Public Health Agency of Canada,. 2009 Tracking Heart
       Disease and Stroke in Canada. Report from the Canadian Chronic Disease Surveillance
       System.http://www.phac-aspc.gc.ca/publicat/2009/cvd-avc/index-eng.php. Accessed March 18, 2015.
2.     Public Health Agency of Canada. Hypertension in Canada 2010. Report from the Canadian Chronic Disease
       Surveillance System.http://www.phac-aspc.gc.ca/cd-mc/cvd-mcv/ccdss-snsmc-
       2010/pdf/CCDSS_HTN_Report_FINAL_EN_20100513.pdf Accessed Sept 10 2015.
3.     Weaver CG, Clement FM, Campbell NR, et al. Healthcare Costs Attributable to Hypertension: Canadian
       Population-Based Cohort Study. Hypertension. 2015;66(3):502-508.
4.     Veerman DP, Imholz BP, Wieling W, Wesseling KH, van Montfrans GA. Circadian profile of systemic
       hemodynamics. Hypertension. 1995;26(1):55-59.
5.     Clement DL, De Buyzere ML, De Bacquer DA, et al. Prognostic value of ambulatory blood-pressure recordings
       in patients with treated hypertension. N Engl J Med. 2003;348(24):2407-2415.
6.     Verdecchia P, Porcellati C, Schillaci G, et al. Ambulatory blood pressure. An independent predictor of
       prognosis in essential hypertension. Hypertension. 1994;24(6):793-801.
7.     Ben-Dov IZ, Kark JD, Ben-Ishay D, Mekler J, Ben-Arie L, Bursztyn M. Predictors of all-cause mortality in clinical
       ambulatory monitoring: unique aspects of blood pressure during sleep. Hypertension. 2007;49(6):1235-1241.
8.     Fagard RH, Celis H, Thijs L, et al. Daytime and nighttime blood pressure as predictors of death and cause-
       specific cardiovascular events in hypertension. Hypertension. 2008;51(1):55-61.
9.     Hermida RC, Ayala DE, Mojon A, Fernandez JR. Influence of circadian time of hypertension treatment on
       cardiovascular risk: results of the MAPEC study. Chronobiol Int. 2010;27(8):1629-1651.
10.    Best Science Medicine. The Absolute CVD Risk/Benefit Calculator.
       http://chd.bestsciencemedicine.com/calc2.html Accessed Aug 31 2015.
11.    Carter BL, Chrischilles EA, Rosenthal G, Gryzlak BM, Eisenstein EL, Vander Weg MW. Efficacy and safety of
       nighttime dosing of antihypertensives: review of the literature and design of a pragmatic clinical trial. J Clin
       Hypertens (Greenwich). 2014;16(2):115-121.
12.    Zhao P, Xu P, Wan C, Wang Z. Evening versus morning dosing regimen drug therapy for hypertension.
       Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2011(10):CD004184.
13.    Hansson L, Hedner T, Dahlof B. Prospective randomized open blinded end-point (PROBE) study. A novel
       design for intervention trials. Prospective Randomized Open Blinded End-Point. Blood Press. 1992;1(2):113-
       119.
14.    Grieshaber MC, Flammer J. Blood flow in glaucoma. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 2005;16(2):79-83.
15.    Hayreh SS. Role of nocturnal arterial hypotension in the development of ocular manifestations of systemic
       arterial hypertension. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 1999;10(6):474-482.
16.    Hayreh SS, Zimmerman MB, Podhajsky P, Alward WL. Nocturnal arterial hypotension and its role in optic
       nerve head and ocular ischemic disorders. Am J Ophthalmol. 1994;117(5):603-624.
17.    Quan H, Sundararajan V, Halfon P, et al. Coding algorithms for defining comorbidities in ICD-9-CM and ICD-
       10 administrative data. Med Care. 2005;43(11):1130-1139.
18.    Tonelli M, Wiebe N, Fortin M, et al. Methods for identifying 30 chronic conditions: application to
       administrative data. BMC Med Inform Decis Mak. 2015;15:31.
19.    Kokotailo RA, Hill MD. Coding of stroke and stroke risk factors using international classification of diseases,
       revisions 9 and 10. Stroke; a journal of cerebral circulation. 2005;36(8):1776-1781.
20.    Gobbens RJ, van Assen MA, Luijkx KG, Schols JM. The predictive validity of the Tilburg Frailty Indicator:
       disability, health care utilization, and quality of life in a population at risk. Gerontologist. 2012;52(5):619-
       631.
21.   Andreasen J, Lund H, Aadahl M, Gobbens RJ, Sorensen EE. Content validation of the Tilburg Frailty Indicator
      from the perspective of frail elderly. A qualitative explorative study. Arch Gerontol Geriatr. 2015;61(3):392-
      399.
22.   Gobbens RJ, van Assen MA, Luijkx KG, Wijnen-Sponselee MT, Schols JM. The Tilburg Frailty Indicator:
      psychometric properties. J Am Med Dir Assoc. 2010;11(5):344-355.
23.   Mueller PS, Montori VM, Bassler D, Koenig BA, Guyatt GH. Ethical issues in stopping randomized trials early
      because of apparent benefit. Ann Intern Med. 2007;146(12):878-881.
24.   Mehta C, Gao P, Bhatt DL, Harrington RA, Skerjanec S, Ware JH. Optimizing trial design: sequential, adaptive,
      and enrichment strategies. Circulation. 2009;119(4):597-605.
25.   Brooke P, Bullock R. Validation of a 6 item cognitive impairment test with a view to primary care usage. Int J
      Geriatr Psychiatry. 1999;14(11):936-940.
26.   Katzman R, Brown T, Fuld P, Peck A, Schechter R, Schimmel H. Validation of a short Orientation-Memory-
      Concentration Test of cognitive impairment. Am J Psychiatry. 1983;140(6):734-739.
27.   Carpenter CR, Bassett ER, Fischer GM, Shirshekan J, Galvin JE, Morris JC. Four sensitive screening tools to
      detect cognitive dysfunction in geriatric emergency department patients: brief Alzheimer's Screen, Short
      Blessed Test, Ottawa 3DY, and the caregiver-completed AD8. Acad Emerg Med. 2011;18(4):374-384.
28.   Alberta College of Family Physicians. About Tools for Practice.https://www.acfp.ca/tools-for-practice/about-
      tools-for-practice/ Accessed Sept 10 2015.
29.   Alberta College of Family Pysicians. Getting Practical About Your Practice.https://www.acfp.ca/what-we-
      do/peip-conference/ Accessed Sept 10 2015.
30.   Therapeutics Education Collaboration. BS Medicine Podcast.http://therapeuticseducation.org/bs-medicine-
      podcast Accessed Sept 10 2015.
31.   Alberta College of Family Physicians. ACFP CPD Roadshow.https://www.acfp.ca/wp-
      content/uploads/2014/02/ACFP_RoadshowBrochureWeb.pdf Accessed Sept 10 2015.
32.   Garrison SR. The Effect of Medication Timing on Anticoagulation Stability in Users of Warfarin: The
      "INRange" RCT. National Institutes of Health Clinical Trials Registry.
      http://www.clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02376803 Accessed Aug 31 2015.
33.   Clouston K, Katz A, Martens PJ, et al. Does access to a colorectal cancer screening website and/or a nurse-
      managed telephone help line provided to patients by their family physician increase fecal occult blood test
      uptake?: results from a pragmatic cluster randomized controlled trial. BMC Cancer. 2014;14:263.
34.   Health Quality Council of Alberta. The Alberta Quality Matrix for Health. http://hqca.ca/about/how-we-
      work/the-alberta-quality-matrix-for-health-1/ Accessed March 27 2016.
35.   Van Spall HG, Toren A, Kiss A, Fowler RA. Eligibility criteria of randomized controlled trials published in high-
      impact general medical journals: a systematic sampling review. JAMA. 2007;297(11):1233-1240.
36.   Rembratt A, Norgaard JP, Andersson KE. Nocturia and associated morbidity in a community-dwelling elderly
      population. BJU Int. 2003;92(7):726-730.
37.   Asplund R. Nocturia in relation to sleep, health, and medical treatment in the elderly. BJU Int. 2005;96 Suppl
      1:15-21.
38.   Conly J, Clement F, Tonelli M, et al. Cost-effectiveness of the use of low- and high-potency statins in people
      at low cardiovascular risk. CMAJ : Canadian Medical Association journal = journal de l'Association medicale
      canadienne. 2011;183(16):E1180-1188.
              Log of BedMed Amendments
   Date of       Date of                         Summary of the Amendment
 Submission    Acceptance                  (Wording as submitted to the ethics board)
   (D-M-Y)       (D-M-Y)

08-01-2017    03-02-2017    There are no substantive changes to our methodology. However, in the
                            course of writing another related grant application (and receiving further
                            feedback on study refinements from co-investigators in the process), and
                            having multiple patient working group meetings to discuss the study
                            documents and the data to be collected, there are numerous minor changes
                            to the wording of all our study documents (patient information, provider
                            worksheet, and consent form) and to the specific data collected directly
                            from participants during interviews.

                            The patient consent form has changed - not because of anything new that
                            we are doing, but because of patient feedback. Specifically, it now explicitly
                            includes the statement: "I understand my PHN number will be used to link
                            my data to hospital, emergency room, physician office visits, pharmacy and
                            lab data."

                            There is also a change in the number of subjects that will undergo 24 hour
                            BP monitoring (as a result of a new sample size calculation for that sub-
                            study). We are also taking the opportunity this amendment presents to
                            update some previously unknown information such as the study registration
                            and funding speed code (successful PRIHS grant).

                            Additionally, there is a new sub-study described in which we are comparing
                            the characteristics of the practice populations from which the study
                            subjects were drawn (i.e. everyone in the same participating practices with
                            a diagnosis of hypertension and one or more BP lowering medications) to
                            the same characteristics of the participants themselves. In so doing we
                            hope to learn how representative our participants were of the general
                            population. This will help with assessing external validity. The SPOR data
                            platform will perform this analysis, and only provide to us aggregated (i.e.
                            non-identifiable) information surrounding the practice populations to which
                            we will compare our study participants. Specifically we will look at both
                            populations according to our covariates including gender, age,
                            hospitalization in the prior 6 months, proportion with specific conditions
                            (diabetes, CHF, stroke/TIA, coronary artery disease, sleep apnea), and
                            proportion with >= 3 BP lowering meds (resistant hypertension), >= 4 non BP
                            lowering medications (polypharmacy), and kidney disease. We will also look
                            at the two populations according to comorbidity, rural vs urban, high
                            attachment vs low attachment, and the practice size from which they were
                            recruited. No individual physicians will be identified - information will only
                            be provided to the researchers in aggregate (pooling data from
                            approximately 365 participating physician practices).
07-02-2017    13-02-2017    Adding in the use of the consent for Section 34 compliance of HIA: Consent
                            to Disclose Health / Registration Information. This will be provided as a
                            paper consent form and will be available as an electronic survey provided
                            participants have their own 2-step login created at the beginning of the
                             study to verify themselves. This will be used in the event that we need to
                             verify information about them or their disposition at the end of the study.
                             Participants can decline this consent but can still participate in the study
                             without it.
20-02-2017      08-03-2017   7.1.1.0: Correction of a typo on Page 5 in Participant Information Package -
                             Alberta, dated 08 Feb 2017 (3 digit participant code -> 5 digit)

                             7.1.5.0: PDF documentation of Interview Questions from REDCap, dated 17
                             Feb 2017 (Including changes to Screening, Baseline, Randomization, and
                             Week 1 Follow-up)
30-03-2017      04-04-2017   7.1.1.0: Patient-facing poster for display in study-affiliated family physician
                             offices for patient engagement, dated 31 Mar 2017

                             7.1.5.0: Zip file containing PDF documentation of Interview Questions from
                             REDCap (Including changes to Screening, Baseline, Randomization, Week 1
                             Follow-up, Week 6 Follow-up, and Month 6 Follow-up), dated 31 Mar 2017
03-05-2017 07   11-05-2017   Adding brief questions at the Week 6 time point to gather participant
                             feedback regarding study design and methods. These questions are not
                             necessary for study participation and participants can opt to not participate.
29-05-2017      01-06-2017   Based off feedback from participants and clinics, we shortened reformatted
                             the information package to increase readability. Furthermore, the letter of
                             introduction from the family physician has been simplified and revised to
                             increase clarity.
27-06-2017      07-07-2017   This protocol amendment opens up study enrolment to residents of BC and
                             Manitoba. Study-wide sample size is expanding from 8,750 in the original
                             protocol to 11,700. The enrolment process has also been expanded to allow
                             for word-of-mouth recruitment from patients not belonging to Pragmatic
                             Trials Collaborative-associated physicians.

                             Inclusion/exclusion criteria have also been clarified and edited to ensure
                             patient safety.

                             Patient study flow has been optimized in accordance with feedback from
                             both patients and providers in order to reduce study burden.
03-08-2017      17-08-2017   Most up to date Month 6 interview questions attached (dated 03 Aug 2017).
                             Also included in this application are slip-in notes for a lottery incentive for
                             patient recruitment purposes.
16-11-2017      29-11-2017   An updated Month 6 Survey has been created on RedCap. Documentation is
                             attached.

                             In the Screening instrument, physician information is now requested before
                             assessing for inclusion criteria rather than after. Physician information
                             includes the doctor’s first and last name as well as any additional identifiers
                             (eg. clinic name, clinic location or phone number). These database changes
                             allow us to account for the different information packages individuals may
                             have received from their physician and subsequently, allows us to follow the
                             study processes accordingly.

                             A feedback slip is also being submitted, to be mailed along with the
                             information package to potential participants. The purpose of this slip is to
                             understand some of the reasons why individuals choose not to participate.
                             The feedback from individuals who have declined to participate may allow
                          us to improve our methods to increase public interest. Individuals will be
                          able to provide feedback through three different options. They may call us at
                          1-844-492-7570, or email us at bedmed@ualberta.ca. If individuals wish to
                          be anonymous, they can visit the link: http://is.gd/albertafeedback. This will
                          direct them to an online survey through RedCap.
01-12-2017   20-12-2017   Uploaded for approval is a consent form for family physicians that are part
                          of the Pragmatic Trials Collaborative. This consent is to allow the Analytics,
                          Performance, and Reporting Branch of Alberta Health to query provincial
                          billing data on behalf on family physicians in order to optimize the list of
                          qualifying patients and reduce burden and workload for clinics. This data
                          would then be provided back to the physician, and their staff would produce
                          the mail out as per usual. The study team will NOT have access to the data
                          at any time during this process - such data remains only between Alberta
                          Health and authorized staff at the physician's clinic.

                          Also included is an SOP describing tiered participation and withdrawal in
                          order to formalize the manner in which patients can continue to be part of
                          the study in a limited fashion (for example, data being collected via
                          databases rather than through direct interactions).
02-02-2018   09-02-2018   An optional 24-hour Blood Pressure monitoring sub-study will be conducted
                          to assess blood pressure differences in the morning and bedtime allocation
                          groups. 151 intervention and 151 control participants will wear an
                          ambulatory BP monitor for 24 hours. Participants residing near an Advanced
                          Care Network (ARC) location who are completing their month 6 follow-up
                          survey online are eligible to participate. Upon completion of the survey,
                          participants will be invited to take part in the optional sub-study and
                          provided with an information package to read online. If they are interested,
                          the study team will contact them within 1 business day, or alternatively,
                          participants may also reach our study team on the number listed on the
                          information package. The study team will describe the sub-study and
                          complete the online consent. A referral will be sent to ARC and within 72
                          hours, ARC will contact eligible participants to schedule an appointment for
                          the fitting of a blood pressure monitor. Participants will complete the 24
                          hour blood pressure monitoring and return the device to the ARC clinic. The
                          study team will receive the data and enter it into RedCap. Participants have
                          the option of having this data sent to their physician if they consent to this
                          sharing of information. In such cases, data will be faxed to the participant's
                          physician with a cover page as required for health data transmission.
08-03-2018   27-03-2018   We have been enlisted Habit Creations to revise our patient-facing
                          documents and create a more user-friendly and engaging design where
                          possible. In this amendment, we submit visually revised consent forms and
                          information package. The consent forms do not contain any wording
                          revisions, simply they visually match the study brand that has been created.
                          The information package will not display entirely on your screen - the biggest
                          format change will be that is all contained on a single 'tabloid-sized' paper
                          that is folded and can be held like a magazine. There are wording revisions
                          to this document that are further highlighted to show where a word or
                          phrase was added/edited/moved/removed. These changes are being
                          submitted for review and approval and then based on the final approved, a
                          public-facing campaign will be created that visually matches.
In order to increase recruitment, we have contracted an advertisement and
marketing consultant (Habit), to produce a public-facing campaign. This
advertisement campaign takes the form of a website landing page, as well
as various forms of advertisement. The advertisements (described below)
will bring interested individuals to the study website, where detailed
information based on the approved Participant Information Package will be
displayed. Patients can download the actual package on the website. We
are also allowing participants to self-screen using the established
inclusion/exclusion criteria in order to quickly determine if they are eligible
for the study, and to provide contact information for contact by study staff if
eligible. Study contact details are also available in case patients are
interested in contacting the study team directly.

Attached to this amendment are links to the video ads to be used - we would
like to be able to create further variations of these videos based on approved
content as needed to increase ad relevance based upon analytics. These
videos will be used in both online campaigns (Facebook and YouTube) as
well as in clinics across Alberta. We will be working with AHS and the AMA to
display ads at these locations.

Online advertising allows us to make adjustments and refine our message
over the course of the campaign. We can also focus on our audience in a
much more targeted way than through other tactics. For this campaign, all
advertising will be geotargeted within Alberta. We’ve selected Facebook,
YouTube, and Google Search as our initial channels for online advertising.
This will be expanded to other platforms such as Twitter, Instagram, or other
social media using the same videos and images, adapted for the platforms
as needed.

Facebook
80% of people aged 45–54 are on Facebook, with 74% of those aged 55–64
having membership on the platform and a drop-off to about 58% of those
over 65. Statistics tell us that 89% of Canadian Facebook users read, view,
or search for information on Facebook at least once a week, with 68% of
them checking at least daily. On Facebook, we’ll target men and women
aged 50+ based on their interests and liked pages. Ad mockups have been
attached to this amendment.

Google Search
72% of people turn to Google to search for answers to specific problems.
We’ll develop search ads based on the following keyword themes:
hypertension, high blood pressure, volunteer, and medication timing for
high blood pressure. These keyword themes were selected based on
monthly search volumes, ad auction ranking opportunity, and relevancy to
our content. Wording of the advertisement comes from the study website,
based upon keywords used by the patient.

YouTube
22% of Canadians watch YouTube daily, 47% watch weekly, and 67% watch
monthly. We’ll use YouTube pre-roll video advertising to reach males and
females. We’ll focus on channels related to health, fitness, and family, as
well as select popular interest channels specific to people aged 50 and
older.
As a result of the ad campaign, some participants calling us may not have a
family physician available to guide them through the medication timing
change process (if required). In order to accommodate these participants,
we have created a set of guidelines that can allow some participants to self-
change their medication timing if they are medically simple. These
guidelines were created in consultation with our collaborator Dr. Raj Padwal
(Director of the Hypertension Clinic at the University of Alberta and the past
Chair of the Hypertension Canada CHEP Guidelines Task Force) and Dr.
James Wright (Hypertension Specialist and Coordinating Editor of the
Cochrane Collaboration's Hypertension Review Group). Dr. Wright's letter of
support for our proposed method of guiding medically simple patients to
make their own timing change is attached. Medically complex participants
without a family physician can also participate in the study, but such
patients will be guided through the process over the phone by a BedMed
associated physician or pharmacist.

This medication self-timing change is available to all participants in the
study if they are medically simple. This includes participants who do not
want to visit their family physician and participants whose family physicians
have asked as to provide this service to patients deemed medically simple.
Participants can always opt for a physician-guided change if they prefer to
do so, even if they are deemed medically simple.

If a participant elects for a self-timing change, RAs will use the established
algorithm to change the timing of up to 2 blood pressure medications, one
at a time as tolerated, with at least a month between changes and a follow-
up telephone call one week after each change. If any adverse effects are
reported, a BedMed physician or pharmacist will speak directly with the
participant. RAs will not change the timing of Alpha Blockers as these drugs
are more often prescribed for benign prostatic hypertrophy than to lower
blood pressure.

Medically simple patients, for the purpose of this protocol, must 1) state to
the RA that they have never had any heart related issues of any kind, 2) must
not use Tiazac XC (which is a delayed release medication whose timing is
more complex), 3) must not use furosemide (which is often in use for
reasons other than hypertension), 4) must not use BID antihypertensives
(whose timing may be more difficult to change), and 5) must use no more
than 2 antihypertensives, excluding alpha blockers (to avoid working with
patients who have resistant hypertension).

If patients are medically simple and comfortable being guided to make their
own timing change the RA will switch medications in the order ABCD
(ACEI/ARB, beta-blocker, calcium channel blocker, diuretic).

The process may be visualized in the submitted BedMed Patient Flow &
Medication Change Process document. An algorithm embedded in the
REDCap Database will check the criteria for each patient and display a "go
or no-go" message for self-change eligibility. The system will also guide the
actual process for the RA in a step-by-step manner. (Screenshots attached
in Documentation)
Also included are the screenshots of the Month 12 Interview Questions.
These are a repeat of the Week 6 questions already approved.
22-02-2019   18-04-2019   BACKGROUND
                          Increasing the proportion of patients responding to recruitment packages is
                          important to the success of any trial and the BedMed team has attempted a
                          variety of changes in recruitment materials to accomplish this. One novel
                          change that has not yet been attempted is to provide, in the physician's
                          letter of introduction, an up to date number of people who are already
                          participating in the trial. Research in other areas suggests that knowing
                          other people are participating increases the participation rate. We would
                          like to see if that would hold true for this type of recruitment as well.

                          WHAT'S NEW
                          We wish to create a second version of the physician letter of introduction
                          that has 1) a single extra sentence, and 2) a one word addition (the word
                          "too") in the sentence that follows. The newly introduced sentence and the
                          altered sentence which follow become:

                          "This study already has over 1,700 Canadians with high blood pressure
                          taking part. If you too choose to participate, our office will assist you in
                          making and monitoring any medication changes that might be required."

                          Our intention is to create equal numbers of the original physicians letter
                          (which doesn't state the number of participants), and this new version of the
                          physicians letter (which does), and to provide every physician office with
                          both versions randomly distributed in the bundles of recruitment envelopes
                          we ship to them. The only other change will be that the date of the letter will
                          be even (e.g. 12th, 14th, 16th) if it is the original version, and odd (e.g. 13th,
                          15th, 17th) if it is the new version. When interested patients read the
                          material and call us about participating, the research assistants will ask for
                          the date on the letter and use that to determine which version of the letter
                          they are responding to.

                          This robust method of evaluating differences in response rate provides us
                          the most reliable way of assessing if the alteration in the letter increases
                          enrolment. We are taking this step because we believe this knowledge, on
                          its own, would be worth sharing with other research groups interested in
                          improving patient participation rates.

                          We anticipate having roughly 6400 (or more) recruitment packages mailed
                          before enrolment is complete. With a baseline 8% response rate, we
                          anticipate having enough power to detect a 2% absolute difference in
                          response rate to an alpha of 0.05 with 80% power.

08-04-2020   16-04-2020   We already described, and received approval for, a sub-study where we are
                          looking to see how representative clinical trial participants are of the people
                          who were invited to participate in the trial. Specifically, we received
                          approval to obtain from AHS aggregate results of the demographic and
                          comorbidity characteristics of all patients attached to participating
                          practices that we are already collecting on BedMed participants. In so doing
                          we can compare the two groups and see if clinical trial participants are
                          different from the population from which they are drawn.

                          In this amendment we are requesting to do 2 additional things:
                          1) Have AHS also provide us aggregate results of the same characteristics
                          for patients that appear eligible for our trial within the whole province (to see
                          how representative the participating GP practice patients are of all eligible
                          patients).

                          and

                          2) Add, for all 3 of these groups (trial participants, eligible patients attached
                          to participating GPs, and all eligible Albertans) two further groups of
                          variables that would help us understand how these patients may be
                          different. For all three groups we would only learn these results in aggregate,
                          and be unable to attach the characteristic to any given individual. These two
                          groups of characteristics are A) PRIOR 3-YEARS SCREENING TESTS
                          (including performance of a PAP smear, FIT test, colonoscopy, PSA test, and
                          mammogram), and B) PRIOR 3-YEARS PREVENTIVE THERAPIES (including
                          dispensing of a shingles vaccine, statin, and osteoporosis medication). We
                          will also be reporting (from aggregate data only) the rate of all-cause
                          hospitalization in each of the three cohorts during the study period.
13-05-2020   19-05-2020   We have already described an analysis of who participates in clinical trials,
                          as compared to who is invited. In this analysis we are looking at a variety of
                          characteristics and comparing them in those who are participating in the
                          trial, to those who are eligible and attached to participating practices (who
                          should have been invited to participate), and to those who are eligible in the
                          province at large. Those characteristics are things like co-morbidities,
                          screening behaviours, and preventive therapies.

                          In this amendment, we are requesting to expand the data we are collecting
                          to include the number of visits with specialists, and the number of visits with
                          family physicians, in the year prior to enrolment (or the year prior to the
                          study start for those who are not enrolled in the study). We also wish to
                          create 2 new cohorts for the same analysis. These cohorts include 1) those
                          who were lost to follow-up or dropped out of the study (and did not withdraw
                          consent for us to access their data), and 2) those who were unable to
                          comply with the intervention timing change. We will only obtain this data in
                          aggregate and hence will be unable to identify these characteristics in any
                          specific individual.

                          I have changed section 2.1 5.0 (on sub-studies) to include:
                          AMENDMENT May 13 2020. We have expanded the data collected in this
                          sub-study to include the number of specialist visits in the preceding year,
                          and the number of family physician visits in the preceding year. We have
                          also added 2 additional cohorts in which to examine the same
                          characteristics. This includes 1) Those who were lost to follow-up or
                          dropped out of the study (and did not withdraw consent for us to access
                          their administrative claims data), and 2) Those who were unable to comply
                          with the timing change.
22-10-2020   29-10-2020   Study Coordinator name change, contact information remains the same.
21-05-2021   31-05-2021   Contained within the existing approved ethics application is a sub-study
                          referred to as the "External Validity" sub-study. In this sub-study, using only
                          administrative claims data, we look to see how representative our trial
                          participants are of those who appeared eligible for the study within 1) the
                          entire Alberta population and 2) within the patient panels of the
participating family physicians. This involves Alberta Health Services (AHS)
creating these two cohorts for us to compare to. All of this has already been
approved.

In order to build the cohort of eligible patients attached to participating
practices (of which there will be around 70,000), the AHS analyst carrying
out the work needs to use the family physician "PracIDs" to identify their
eligible patients. The PracID is created by Alberta Health to identify
physicians within the administrative claims data. The problem for which this
amendment is being generated is that PracID is one of the few things AHS
does not have access to in the administrative claims data without explicit
approval from Alberta Health to use it. Alberta Health is willing to give this
approval but they have requested us to do 2 things first.

1) They want us to send an e-mail to all the physician participants asking
them to let us know if they object to AHS using their PracID – i.e. to let us
know if they want to opt out of that information sharing, with the default
being that the PracID will be shared if no objection is voiced.

2) They have asked us to ensure that we have a waiver of consent for this
sub-study from the ethics board. i.e. That we do not need to obtain consent
from individuals within the two administrative claims data derived
comparison cohorts, nor do we need to obtain specific consent for the
sharing of the PracID from the physicians who are already participating in
the study.

To be clear, we are not changing anything in the sub-study other than
specifying that Alberta Health will permit Alberta Health Services access to
the PracIDs of the participating physicians and that we will let the
physicians know this is happening, with an opportunity to opt out if they
don’t want it to occur.

Relevant to this, is that the analysis is carried out entirely by the data
steward, that researchers never see patient level data, and that the smallest
of the two comparison cohorts (eligible patients attached to participating
practices) will have around 70,000 individuals contributing data. We are not
collecting or reporting any information about participating physicians.
Merely using the PracID to create the cohort of attached eligible patients.

Also relevant is that, we believe, the participating physicians would have
assumed, as we did, that AHS already had access to this information. We
have been told by AH that their intention is for the AHS-AH information
sharing agreement to be updated to include AHS having access to physician
PracID, but this will not occur in the time frame of our study.

Within the ethics application, for the purpose of this amendment, we made
a single addition at the end of:
2.1 Study Objectives and Design
5.0 For clinical trials, describe any sub-studies associated with this protocol
Which reads:

AMENDMENT May 21 2021. To create the previously described cohort of
eligible individuals attached to participating practices it is necessary for
                          Alberta Health to share each participating physician's PracID with Alberta
                          Health Services, who is conducting the analysis. At Alberta Health's request,
                          we will be notifying participating clinics that this is occurring, by e-mail or by
                          telephone, in order to give individual physicians the opportunity to opt out if
                          they don't want Alberta Health Services to be able to use their PracID for the
                          analysis.
23-08-2021   25-08-2021   For participants who experienced an event that was reported to BedMed
                          team during a 6 month follow up. All reported events will be reconciled with
                          administrative claims data, and any events unaccounted for will be followed
                          up by fax with participants physician to confirm the event. Fax is the typical
                          form of communication with physician when communicating about
                          participant/patients.
01-03-2022   04-03-2022   Additional questions for all participants, and close out survey for
                          participants who end their participation in the study, or complete the study.
24-03-2022   31-03-2022   The project recently received an extension in funding, for those participants
                          who complete their surveys online are unaware of the changes as we do not
                          speak directly with them. The survey intro will be amended to inform
                          participants of the new extended study timelines.

                          For study participants, the extension means there will be additional surveys
                          to complete (at 6 month intervals) until the amended end date (an
                          additional year).

                          Due to the nature of how the study is set up in REDCAP, the various
                          provinces and subsequent differences in approvals dates, and study
                          participants starting and ending the study at different times we are unable to
                          state how many additional surveys each specific participant will have as all
                          participants see the same information when they complete a survey. By
                          providing the end date (End of 2023) we feel that makes it clear what to
                          expect for participants regarding the additional time in the study. In
                          addition, the study phone number/email are provided and an opportunity to
                          end involvement in the study "Are you still interested in participating in the
                          study (Y/N)" in each survey, provides an opportunity for participants to
                          discontinue their participation or talk with the study team.
02-08-2024   02-08-2024   This amendment is intended to describe how we would share de-identified
                          patient-level data with other researchers. Sharing patient level data has
                          become the norm for RCTs and all the big journals require us to have a
                          statement about how other researchers can request our de-identified
                          patient level data. We would like to be as open with sharing our patient level
                          data as possible. The following are what we believe you need to know about
                          our data sharing plans.

                          1) PARTICIPANTS WERE INFORMED ABOUT OUR DATA SHARING PLANS
                          WHEN THEY ENROLLED IN THE TRIAL: Prior to enrolment, during the
                          consent process, we advised all participants that we would be sharing
                          deidentified data from the trial. Specifically, the material accompanying the
                          consent stated: 'To maximize the value of this study after our analysis is
                          complete, we will make our raw data available over the Internet (with all
                          identifying information removed) so that other research groups can verify
                          our findings and explore questions of their own.'This statement can be
                          found in the very first document attached in the Recruitment Materials
                          section of this ethics application with the title "Participant Information
Package - Alberta 22Oct 2020 (0.07)" The relevant text is on page 3 in the
last paragraph of the section entitled "Study Confidentiality".

2) WHAT WE WILL SHARE IS COMPLETELY DE-IDENTIFIED: The dataset to be
shared is an Excel file of our analytic dataset with variables that could be
identifying removed. Specifically, we have removed 1) Birth date (including
only age, in years, at time of randomization), 2) Study ID, 3) Province of
residence, 4) all event dates (instead providing a “days since
randomization” for each event), 5) all dates related to the last contact with
the participant – instead using a number of days post randomization at
which censoring occurred and providing the type of censoring. There will be
3,357 individuals in this dataset, making it near impossible for anyone to be
identified. We will also remove baseline dementia diagnosis, as a
precaution, as this is potentially sensitive information. There will be a
second page of the Excel spreadsheet that will have data from a smaller
number of individuals (302) who went for 24-hour BP assessment. However,
this subgroup data will not be linked to the other spreadsheet data, and we
will present only BP numbers and variables derived from these numbers.
Hence knowing someone underwent 24-hour BP monitoring would not help
in identifying their data. Alberta Health Services legal representatives were
advised of our data sharing plans, and our steps to de-identify the data, and
they have approved it.

3) WE WILL SHARE VERY OPENLY, BUT WE WILL TRACK WHO IS
DOWNLOADING OUR DATA, AND WE WILL ASK THEM TO ACKNOWLEDGE
THAT THEY WILL NOT ATTEMPT TO IDENTIFY ANYONE IN THE DATASET:
Specifically, we will:
a) Create a new UofA hosted REDCap database to track who is downloading
our data and for what purpose.
b) Provide a link on the BedMed page of the Pragmatic Trials Collaborative
website to a REDCap survey that asks for:
i) Name of the individual responsible for handling the security of the analytic
dataset upon receipt (the “Data recipient”).
ii) Name of data recipient’s affiliated academic institution.
iii) Country of data recipient’s affiliated academic institution.
iv) City of data recipient’s affiliated academic institution.
v) Data recipient’s academic status (mutually exclusive radio buttons for
Professor, Associate Professor, Assistant Professor, Clinical faculty, non-
academic)
vi) Description of the use to which the data will be put.
vii) E-mail address of the data recipient
c) Once that e-mail address is entered we will use the e-mail address to
send the data recipient a REDCap consent waiver asking them to agree that
they will:
i) Agree not to share the data outside of their immediate research team (i.e.
anyone authorized to use the data must register with us themselves)
ii) Agree not to attempt to identify anyone in the dataset
iii) Agree to acknowledge the Alberta SPOR Support Unit for their curation of
the data, and acknowledge Alberta Innovates and the Canadian Institutes of
Health Research for the funding of the original work
iv) Agree to offer one or more BedMed co-investigators the opportunity to
participate as a co-investigator and/or co-author on any project whose
findings are based, in whole or in part, on BedMed data.
d) At this point, if both points are agreed to, an e-mail is sent to Dr. Garrison
with the request for data sharing. He will make the final decision on data
sharing, and he will e-mail the analytic dataset directly to the data recipient
if data sharing is agreed to.
