22-02-2019   18-04-2019   BACKGROUND
                          Increasing the proportion of patients responding to recruitment packages is
                          important to the success of any trial and the BedMed team has attempted a
                          variety of changes in recruitment materials to accomplish this. One novel
                          change that has not yet been attempted is to provide, in the physician's
                          letter of introduction, an up to date number of people who are already
                          participating in the trial. Research in other areas suggests that knowing
                          other people are participating increases the participation rate. We would
                          like to see if that would hold true for this type of recruitment as well.

                          WHAT'S NEW
                          We wish to create a second version of the physician letter of introduction
                          that has 1) a single extra sentence, and 2) a one word addition (the word
                          "too") in the sentence that follows. The newly introduced sentence and the
                          altered sentence which follow become:

                          "This study already has over 1,700 Canadians with high blood pressure
                          taking part. If you too choose to participate, our office will assist you in
                          making and monitoring any medication changes that might be required."

                          Our intention is to create equal numbers of the original physicians letter
                          (which doesn't state the number of participants), and this new version of the
                          physicians letter (which does), and to provide every physician office with
                          both versions randomly distributed in the bundles of recruitment envelopes
                          we ship to them. The only other change will be that the date of the letter will
                          be even (e.g. 12th, 14th, 16th) if it is the original version, and odd (e.g. 13th,
                          15th, 17th) if it is the new version. When interested patients read the
                          material and call us about participating, the research assistants will ask for
                          the date on the letter and use that to determine which version of the letter
                          they are responding to.

                          This robust method of evaluating differences in response rate provides us
                          the most reliable way of assessing if the alteration in the letter increases
                          enrolment. We are taking this step because we believe this knowledge, on
                          its own, would be worth sharing with other research groups interested in
                          improving patient participation rates.

                          We anticipate having roughly 6400 (or more) recruitment packages mailed
                          before enrolment is complete. With a baseline 8% response rate, we
                          anticipate having enough power to detect a 2% absolute difference in
                          response rate to an alpha of 0.05 with 80% power.

08-04-2020   16-04-2020   We already described, and received approval for, a sub-study where we are
                          looking to see how representative clinical trial participants are of the people
                          who were invited to participate in the trial. Specifically, we received
                          approval to obtain from AHS aggregate results of the demographic and
                          comorbidity characteristics of all patients attached to participating
                          practices that we are already collecting on BedMed participants. In so doing
                          we can compare the two groups and see if clinical trial participants are
                          different from the population from which they are drawn.

                          In this amendment we are requesting to do 2 additional things:
