                          1) Have AHS also provide us aggregate results of the same characteristics
                          for patients that appear eligible for our trial within the whole province (to see
                          how representative the participating GP practice patients are of all eligible
                          patients).

                          and

                          2) Add, for all 3 of these groups (trial participants, eligible patients attached
                          to participating GPs, and all eligible Albertans) two further groups of
                          variables that would help us understand how these patients may be
                          different. For all three groups we would only learn these results in aggregate,
                          and be unable to attach the characteristic to any given individual. These two
                          groups of characteristics are A) PRIOR 3-YEARS SCREENING TESTS
                          (including performance of a PAP smear, FIT test, colonoscopy, PSA test, and
                          mammogram), and B) PRIOR 3-YEARS PREVENTIVE THERAPIES (including
                          dispensing of a shingles vaccine, statin, and osteoporosis medication). We
                          will also be reporting (from aggregate data only) the rate of all-cause
                          hospitalization in each of the three cohorts during the study period.
13-05-2020   19-05-2020   We have already described an analysis of who participates in clinical trials,
                          as compared to who is invited. In this analysis we are looking at a variety of
                          characteristics and comparing them in those who are participating in the
                          trial, to those who are eligible and attached to participating practices (who
                          should have been invited to participate), and to those who are eligible in the
                          province at large. Those characteristics are things like co-morbidities,
                          screening behaviours, and preventive therapies.

                          In this amendment, we are requesting to expand the data we are collecting
                          to include the number of visits with specialists, and the number of visits with
                          family physicians, in the year prior to enrolment (or the year prior to the
                          study start for those who are not enrolled in the study). We also wish to
                          create 2 new cohorts for the same analysis. These cohorts include 1) those
                          who were lost to follow-up or dropped out of the study (and did not withdraw
                          consent for us to access their data), and 2) those who were unable to
                          comply with the intervention timing change. We will only obtain this data in
                          aggregate and hence will be unable to identify these characteristics in any
                          specific individual.

                          I have changed section 2.1 5.0 (on sub-studies) to include:
                          AMENDMENT May 13 2020. We have expanded the data collected in this
                          sub-study to include the number of specialist visits in the preceding year,
                          and the number of family physician visits in the preceding year. We have
                          also added 2 additional cohorts in which to examine the same
                          characteristics. This includes 1) Those who were lost to follow-up or
                          dropped out of the study (and did not withdraw consent for us to access
                          their administrative claims data), and 2) Those who were unable to comply
                          with the timing change.
22-10-2020   29-10-2020   Study Coordinator name change, contact information remains the same.
21-05-2021   31-05-2021   Contained within the existing approved ethics application is a sub-study
                          referred to as the "External Validity" sub-study. In this sub-study, using only
                          administrative claims data, we look to see how representative our trial
                          participants are of those who appeared eligible for the study within 1) the
                          entire Alberta population and 2) within the patient panels of the
