In order to increase recruitment, we have contracted an advertisement and
marketing consultant (Habit), to produce a public-facing campaign. This
advertisement campaign takes the form of a website landing page, as well
as various forms of advertisement. The advertisements (described below)
will bring interested individuals to the study website, where detailed
information based on the approved Participant Information Package will be
displayed. Patients can download the actual package on the website. We
are also allowing participants to self-screen using the established
inclusion/exclusion criteria in order to quickly determine if they are eligible
for the study, and to provide contact information for contact by study staff if
eligible. Study contact details are also available in case patients are
interested in contacting the study team directly.

Attached to this amendment are links to the video ads to be used - we would
like to be able to create further variations of these videos based on approved
content as needed to increase ad relevance based upon analytics. These
videos will be used in both online campaigns (Facebook and YouTube) as
well as in clinics across Alberta. We will be working with AHS and the AMA to
display ads at these locations.

Online advertising allows us to make adjustments and refine our message
over the course of the campaign. We can also focus on our audience in a
much more targeted way than through other tactics. For this campaign, all
advertising will be geotargeted within Alberta. We’ve selected Facebook,
YouTube, and Google Search as our initial channels for online advertising.
This will be expanded to other platforms such as Twitter, Instagram, or other
social media using the same videos and images, adapted for the platforms
as needed.

Facebook
80% of people aged 45–54 are on Facebook, with 74% of those aged 55–64
having membership on the platform and a drop-off to about 58% of those
over 65. Statistics tell us that 89% of Canadian Facebook users read, view,
or search for information on Facebook at least once a week, with 68% of
them checking at least daily. On Facebook, we’ll target men and women
aged 50+ based on their interests and liked pages. Ad mockups have been
attached to this amendment.

Google Search
72% of people turn to Google to search for answers to specific problems.
We’ll develop search ads based on the following keyword themes:
hypertension, high blood pressure, volunteer, and medication timing for
high blood pressure. These keyword themes were selected based on
monthly search volumes, ad auction ranking opportunity, and relevancy to
our content. Wording of the advertisement comes from the study website,
based upon keywords used by the patient.

YouTube
22% of Canadians watch YouTube daily, 47% watch weekly, and 67% watch
monthly. We’ll use YouTube pre-roll video advertising to reach males and
females. We’ll focus on channels related to health, fitness, and family, as
well as select popular interest channels specific to people aged 50 and
older.
