Package - Alberta 22Oct 2020 (0.07)" The relevant text is on page 3 in the
last paragraph of the section entitled "Study Confidentiality".

2) WHAT WE WILL SHARE IS COMPLETELY DE-IDENTIFIED: The dataset to be
shared is an Excel file of our analytic dataset with variables that could be
identifying removed. Specifically, we have removed 1) Birth date (including
only age, in years, at time of randomization), 2) Study ID, 3) Province of
residence, 4) all event dates (instead providing a “days since
randomization” for each event), 5) all dates related to the last contact with
the participant – instead using a number of days post randomization at
which censoring occurred and providing the type of censoring. There will be
3,357 individuals in this dataset, making it near impossible for anyone to be
identified. We will also remove baseline dementia diagnosis, as a
precaution, as this is potentially sensitive information. There will be a
second page of the Excel spreadsheet that will have data from a smaller
number of individuals (302) who went for 24-hour BP assessment. However,
this subgroup data will not be linked to the other spreadsheet data, and we
will present only BP numbers and variables derived from these numbers.
Hence knowing someone underwent 24-hour BP monitoring would not help
in identifying their data. Alberta Health Services legal representatives were
advised of our data sharing plans, and our steps to de-identify the data, and
they have approved it.

3) WE WILL SHARE VERY OPENLY, BUT WE WILL TRACK WHO IS
DOWNLOADING OUR DATA, AND WE WILL ASK THEM TO ACKNOWLEDGE
THAT THEY WILL NOT ATTEMPT TO IDENTIFY ANYONE IN THE DATASET:
Specifically, we will:
a) Create a new UofA hosted REDCap database to track who is downloading
our data and for what purpose.
b) Provide a link on the BedMed page of the Pragmatic Trials Collaborative
website to a REDCap survey that asks for:
i) Name of the individual responsible for handling the security of the analytic
dataset upon receipt (the “Data recipient”).
ii) Name of data recipient’s affiliated academic institution.
iii) Country of data recipient’s affiliated academic institution.
iv) City of data recipient’s affiliated academic institution.
v) Data recipient’s academic status (mutually exclusive radio buttons for
Professor, Associate Professor, Assistant Professor, Clinical faculty, non-
academic)
vi) Description of the use to which the data will be put.
vii) E-mail address of the data recipient
c) Once that e-mail address is entered we will use the e-mail address to
send the data recipient a REDCap consent waiver asking them to agree that
they will:
i) Agree not to share the data outside of their immediate research team (i.e.
anyone authorized to use the data must register with us themselves)
ii) Agree not to attempt to identify anyone in the dataset
iii) Agree to acknowledge the Alberta SPOR Support Unit for their curation of
the data, and acknowledge Alberta Innovates and the Canadian Institutes of
Health Research for the funding of the original work
iv) Agree to offer one or more BedMed co-investigators the opportunity to
participate as a co-investigator and/or co-author on any project whose
findings are based, in whole or in part, on BedMed data.
