                          Alberta Health to share each participating physician's PracID with Alberta
                          Health Services, who is conducting the analysis. At Alberta Health's request,
                          we will be notifying participating clinics that this is occurring, by e-mail or by
                          telephone, in order to give individual physicians the opportunity to opt out if
                          they don't want Alberta Health Services to be able to use their PracID for the
                          analysis.
23-08-2021   25-08-2021   For participants who experienced an event that was reported to BedMed
                          team during a 6 month follow up. All reported events will be reconciled with
                          administrative claims data, and any events unaccounted for will be followed
                          up by fax with participants physician to confirm the event. Fax is the typical
                          form of communication with physician when communicating about
                          participant/patients.
01-03-2022   04-03-2022   Additional questions for all participants, and close out survey for
                          participants who end their participation in the study, or complete the study.
24-03-2022   31-03-2022   The project recently received an extension in funding, for those participants
                          who complete their surveys online are unaware of the changes as we do not
                          speak directly with them. The survey intro will be amended to inform
                          participants of the new extended study timelines.

                          For study participants, the extension means there will be additional surveys
                          to complete (at 6 month intervals) until the amended end date (an
                          additional year).

                          Due to the nature of how the study is set up in REDCAP, the various
                          provinces and subsequent differences in approvals dates, and study
                          participants starting and ending the study at different times we are unable to
                          state how many additional surveys each specific participant will have as all
                          participants see the same information when they complete a survey. By
                          providing the end date (End of 2023) we feel that makes it clear what to
                          expect for participants regarding the additional time in the study. In
                          addition, the study phone number/email are provided and an opportunity to
                          end involvement in the study "Are you still interested in participating in the
                          study (Y/N)" in each survey, provides an opportunity for participants to
                          discontinue their participation or talk with the study team.
02-08-2024   02-08-2024   This amendment is intended to describe how we would share de-identified
                          patient-level data with other researchers. Sharing patient level data has
                          become the norm for RCTs and all the big journals require us to have a
                          statement about how other researchers can request our de-identified
                          patient level data. We would like to be as open with sharing our patient level
                          data as possible. The following are what we believe you need to know about
                          our data sharing plans.

                          1) PARTICIPANTS WERE INFORMED ABOUT OUR DATA SHARING PLANS
                          WHEN THEY ENROLLED IN THE TRIAL: Prior to enrolment, during the
                          consent process, we advised all participants that we would be sharing
                          deidentified data from the trial. Specifically, the material accompanying the
                          consent stated: 'To maximize the value of this study after our analysis is
                          complete, we will make our raw data available over the Internet (with all
                          identifying information removed) so that other research groups can verify
                          our findings and explore questions of their own.'This statement can be
                          found in the very first document attached in the Recruitment Materials
                          section of this ethics application with the title "Participant Information
