              Log of BedMed Amendments
   Date of       Date of                         Summary of the Amendment
 Submission    Acceptance                  (Wording as submitted to the ethics board)
   (D-M-Y)       (D-M-Y)

08-01-2017    03-02-2017    There are no substantive changes to our methodology. However, in the
                            course of writing another related grant application (and receiving further
                            feedback on study refinements from co-investigators in the process), and
                            having multiple patient working group meetings to discuss the study
                            documents and the data to be collected, there are numerous minor changes
                            to the wording of all our study documents (patient information, provider
                            worksheet, and consent form) and to the specific data collected directly
                            from participants during interviews.

                            The patient consent form has changed - not because of anything new that
                            we are doing, but because of patient feedback. Specifically, it now explicitly
                            includes the statement: "I understand my PHN number will be used to link
                            my data to hospital, emergency room, physician office visits, pharmacy and
                            lab data."

                            There is also a change in the number of subjects that will undergo 24 hour
                            BP monitoring (as a result of a new sample size calculation for that sub-
                            study). We are also taking the opportunity this amendment presents to
                            update some previously unknown information such as the study registration
                            and funding speed code (successful PRIHS grant).

                            Additionally, there is a new sub-study described in which we are comparing
                            the characteristics of the practice populations from which the study
                            subjects were drawn (i.e. everyone in the same participating practices with
                            a diagnosis of hypertension and one or more BP lowering medications) to
                            the same characteristics of the participants themselves. In so doing we
                            hope to learn how representative our participants were of the general
                            population. This will help with assessing external validity. The SPOR data
                            platform will perform this analysis, and only provide to us aggregated (i.e.
                            non-identifiable) information surrounding the practice populations to which
                            we will compare our study participants. Specifically we will look at both
                            populations according to our covariates including gender, age,
                            hospitalization in the prior 6 months, proportion with specific conditions
                            (diabetes, CHF, stroke/TIA, coronary artery disease, sleep apnea), and
                            proportion with >= 3 BP lowering meds (resistant hypertension), >= 4 non BP
                            lowering medications (polypharmacy), and kidney disease. We will also look
                            at the two populations according to comorbidity, rural vs urban, high
                            attachment vs low attachment, and the practice size from which they were
                            recruited. No individual physicians will be identified - information will only
                            be provided to the researchers in aggregate (pooling data from
                            approximately 365 participating physician practices).
07-02-2017    13-02-2017    Adding in the use of the consent for Section 34 compliance of HIA: Consent
                            to Disclose Health / Registration Information. This will be provided as a
                            paper consent form and will be available as an electronic survey provided
                            participants have their own 2-step login created at the beginning of the
