                          us to improve our methods to increase public interest. Individuals will be
                          able to provide feedback through three different options. They may call us at
                          1-844-492-7570, or email us at bedmed@ualberta.ca. If individuals wish to
                          be anonymous, they can visit the link: http://is.gd/albertafeedback. This will
                          direct them to an online survey through RedCap.
01-12-2017   20-12-2017   Uploaded for approval is a consent form for family physicians that are part
                          of the Pragmatic Trials Collaborative. This consent is to allow the Analytics,
                          Performance, and Reporting Branch of Alberta Health to query provincial
                          billing data on behalf on family physicians in order to optimize the list of
                          qualifying patients and reduce burden and workload for clinics. This data
                          would then be provided back to the physician, and their staff would produce
                          the mail out as per usual. The study team will NOT have access to the data
                          at any time during this process - such data remains only between Alberta
                          Health and authorized staff at the physician's clinic.

                          Also included is an SOP describing tiered participation and withdrawal in
                          order to formalize the manner in which patients can continue to be part of
                          the study in a limited fashion (for example, data being collected via
                          databases rather than through direct interactions).
02-02-2018   09-02-2018   An optional 24-hour Blood Pressure monitoring sub-study will be conducted
                          to assess blood pressure differences in the morning and bedtime allocation
                          groups. 151 intervention and 151 control participants will wear an
                          ambulatory BP monitor for 24 hours. Participants residing near an Advanced
                          Care Network (ARC) location who are completing their month 6 follow-up
                          survey online are eligible to participate. Upon completion of the survey,
                          participants will be invited to take part in the optional sub-study and
                          provided with an information package to read online. If they are interested,
                          the study team will contact them within 1 business day, or alternatively,
                          participants may also reach our study team on the number listed on the
                          information package. The study team will describe the sub-study and
                          complete the online consent. A referral will be sent to ARC and within 72
                          hours, ARC will contact eligible participants to schedule an appointment for
                          the fitting of a blood pressure monitor. Participants will complete the 24
                          hour blood pressure monitoring and return the device to the ARC clinic. The
                          study team will receive the data and enter it into RedCap. Participants have
                          the option of having this data sent to their physician if they consent to this
                          sharing of information. In such cases, data will be faxed to the participant's
                          physician with a cover page as required for health data transmission.
08-03-2018   27-03-2018   We have been enlisted Habit Creations to revise our patient-facing
                          documents and create a more user-friendly and engaging design where
                          possible. In this amendment, we submit visually revised consent forms and
                          information package. The consent forms do not contain any wording
                          revisions, simply they visually match the study brand that has been created.
                          The information package will not display entirely on your screen - the biggest
                          format change will be that is all contained on a single 'tabloid-sized' paper
                          that is folded and can be held like a magazine. There are wording revisions
                          to this document that are further highlighted to show where a word or
                          phrase was added/edited/moved/removed. These changes are being
                          submitted for review and approval and then based on the final approved, a
                          public-facing campaign will be created that visually matches.
