2. Informing Patients: The study team gives providers one pre-stuffed envelope for every patient
   on their list. Provider offices affix patient address labels and mail the letters. Patient envelopes
   contain: 1) a letter of introduction from their physician; 2) a study information sheet with phone
   number reaching our study team; 3) a consent form with postage paid return envelope; and 4)
   a "provider work sheet” (see appendix page 1).
3. Consenting Patients: The study team dialogs with patients calling the contact number and
   obtains consent (online using REDCap or by return post) if interested and eligible. After
   consent 1) baseline characteristics not available in administrative data are collected such as
   smoking status, and frailty status according to the Tilburg Frailty Indicator20-22, and 2)
   participants are asked to make (and advise us of) a study specific BP visit with their provider.
4. Allocation: Upon calling us back with the date of their provider appointment (demonstrating
   commitment), patients dialog directly with a research assistant with no clinical patient
   interaction who obtains their allocation to treatment or control (via a simple randomization – no
   stratification or blocking) from the central REDCapTM server’s randomization module (which
   ensures irreversible and concealed allocation). Patients are also walked through 1) writing a list
   of current BP meds at the top of the provider worksheet and 2) circling the worksheet’s
   allocated treatment arm (either “use BP meds in morning” or “use BP meds at bedtime”).
5. Intervention: The patient arrives at their provider’s office for the scheduled follow-up visit and
   hands them the provider worksheet. Providers observe the allocation (and the list of current BP
   meds), adjust medications as necessary and arrange clinical follow-up as per their judgment.
6. Study Follow-up: Post intervention, the study team calls patients at 1 week, 6 weeks, 6 months
   and every 6 months until study conclusion. After 6 months patients can opt for automated
   REDCap enabled on-line follow-up (chosen by 31% of patients in our pilot study), which
   improves study efficiency. These follow-up interactions supplement claims data to establish
   death and nursing home admission and collect data on adverse effects and patient experience.
Interim Analysis: An independent data safety monitoring board (DSMB) organized and chaired
by Jim Wright (Cochrane Hypertension Review Group Coordinating Editor) will review all available
data upon reaching 200 events (anticipated to occur at 20 months). If p is ≤ 0.001 for benefit, or p
is ≤ 0.05 for harm, the committee will apply clinical judgement to breaking the trial early.23
Sub-studies: 1) Achieved BP: 100 intervention and 100 control subjects will undergo 24-hour BP
monitoring at 6 months to determine BP differences between groups. 2) Diuretic tolerance: Upon
enrolment of 200 patients whose only BP med is a diuretic (including combination pills) we will
analyse, in all patients allocated to bedtime, 6-week compliance to allocation for all BP meds. If
diuretic compliance is substantially worse than other drugs our adaptive trial design24 will exclude
the enrolment of additional patients whose only BP medication is a diuretic.
Statistical Analysis: The primary outcome will be analysed by Cox Proportional Hazards Survival
Analysis using baseline covariates which include: age ≥ 80, sex, frailty (binary - from the Tilburg
Frailty Indicator20-22), cognitive impairment (binary - from the Short Blessed Test25-27), smoking
status, hospitalization in last 6 months, ≥3 baseline BP meds (resistant hypertension),
presence/absence of specific diagnoses (diabetes, CHF, stroke/TIA, coronary artery disease), and
significant renal impairment (a claims data renal insufficiency diagnosis, eGFR less than 40, or
dialysis).

Feasibility of Proposed Activities:
1. Physician Enrolment: Our trial network, known as the Pragmatic Trials Collaborative
   (www.PragmaticTrials.ca) and led by Dr. Garrison (our PI), recently completed enrolment of its
   first RCT (successfully piloting BedMed’s recruitment methods - albeit with a different
   question). This trial (INRange32), which examines the effect of the timing of warfarin ingestion
   on time in therapeutic INR range, had a remarkable 236 British Columbia (BC) and Alberta
   family physicians from 53 different communities mailing recruitment letters (78.4% in Alberta).
   This degree of physician engagement is unprecedented. To our knowledge, the largest
   published non-industry RCT relying on Canadian FPs to recruit patients involved 79
   physicians.33 INRange engaged triple that number. Our membership grew by 131 physicians
   last year and now numbers close to 400 across both provinces. And we expect higher
