eAppendix. Supplemental Methods

Statistical analysis

Secondary binary outcomes were also analyzed with mixed logistic regression models adjusted for

stratification variables and are reported as adjusted ORs with their 95%CIs. Similar to methods used

for the primary outcome, adjusted absolute and relative risk differences (RD) were estimated from the

marginal probabilities derived from the mixed logistic regression models using the method described

by Austin. 95% confidence intervals of absolute and relative RD were estimated using bootstrap

methods (2000 bootstrap samples) 1.. The secondary ordinal outcome (distribution of 90-day mRs,

after combining scores of 5 and 6) was analyzed using a mixed ordinal logistic regression model

(including treatment groups and prior use of IV thrombolysis as fixed effects and center as a random

effect) and reported as adjusted common OR. Change in NIHSS score at 24 hours from admission
                                                                                      2
was analyzed using the constrained longitudinal data analysis (cLDA) model , adjusted for

randomization stratification variables. This model was used in view of the potential advantages of the
                                                                                             3
cLDA compared to the conventional longitudinal analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) model. In the

cLDA, both the baseline and post-baseline values are modeled as dependent variables using a linear

mixed model (an unstructured covariance pattern model), and the true baseline means are

constrained to be the same for the 2 treatment groups. Hence, the cLDA provides an adjustment for

the observed baseline difference in estimating the treatment effects, using all available baseline and

post-baseline values. The between-group mean differences in 24-hour change in NIHSS was

estimated by the time-by-arm interaction as treatment effect size. Normality of model residuals was

checked and satisfied. The times to achieve primary outcome (mTICI 2/b at the end of the

endovascular procedure) from groin puncture and clot contact and the total number of passes with

endovascular revascularization devices were compared between the two-treatment groups using the

Mann-Whitney U test. For these secondary outcomes, effect size was estimated through the
                                        4
calculation of standardized differences on rank-transformed data; 95%CIs were estimated using

bootstrap methods (2000 bootstrap samples).

No imputation procedure was applied to handle missing data (including loss to follow-up) for

secondary outcomes, except for reperfusion scores (mTICI) where missing mTICI score due to groin

access failure (n=4) were treated as failures (mTICI 0) and those due to no core laboratory reading




© 2017 American Medical Association. All rights reserved.
