ALLEGRO
Version 7 15 November 2022
IRAS 231280

The SAE report will provide an assessment of causality and expectedness at the time of the
initial report to ACCORD according to Sections 11.4.2, Assessment of Causality and 11.4.3,
Assessment of Expectedness.
The SAE form will be transmitted via email to safety@accord.scot only forms in a pdf format
will be accepted by ACCORD via email. Forms may also be sent by fax to ACCORD on +44
(0)131 242 9447 or may be submitted by hand to the office. Where missing information has
not been sent to ACCORD after an initial report, ACCORD will contact the Investigator and
request the missing information. The Investigator must respond to these requests in a timely
manner. ACCORD will forward all SAEs and related correspondence to the ALLEGRO trial
office by email to allegro@abdn.ac.uk within 24 hours of receipt.

The sponsor will report all SUSARs to Tayside Pharmaceuticals
UHB.tptrials@nhs.net) within 7 days of becoming aware of them.

(Tay-

All reports transmitted to ACCORD and any follow up information will be retained by the
Investigator in the Investigator Site File (ISF).
11.5.1 SAEs within ALLEGRO
Toxicity due to lidocaine is well described (see section 6.6.1). Any of these symptoms/signs
occurring during or within 2 hours of completion of the IV lidocaine infusion should be
recorded as an AR on the AE log and, if it meets the criteria for serious, also recorded and
reported as an SAR following the process described in 11.5 above.
Death of any patient within the study should be recorded as an SAE and reported to the
sponsor within 24 hours as described in section 11.5, whether or not thought to be related
to the study IMP.
As noted in 11.3.3, colorectal surgery is unavoidably associated with a variety of
‘complications’, which may range in severity from trivial to life-threatening, and occur in at
least 40% of cases. Most are self-limiting or treatable with oral medications, and will be
recorded as adverse events.
Complications of surgery reaching grade 3 and above on the Clavien-Dindo scale will be
recorded as secondary/tertiary outcome measures and not as SAEs, unless they are
considered to be related to the study drug. Such events will not be reported to the sponsor
in the expedited fashion described in section 11.5 even if they reach the criteria for
seriousness. The exception to this is deaths as a result of complications of surgery, which
should be reported as an SAE.
Prolongation of hospital admission for social reasons will not be recorded or reported as a
SAE, but captured as part of the outcome data for the trial.

CR007-T01v3.0
Page 47 of 61

