ALLEGRO
Version 8 21 December 2022
IRAS 231280

4. STUDY POPULATION
4.1

NUMBER OF PARTICIPANTS

The study will take place in at least 12-15 high-throughput UK colorectal surgery units.
The number of NHS sites participating in the study was increased to 30. This was
supported by the funder, Sponsor and the TSC members.
Planned minimally invasive stratum:
With a sample size of 562 randomised 1:1 to IV lidocaine or placebo the study will have
90% power at a 2-sided 5% level of significance to detect a relative reduction of 33%
from 40% to 26.8% (absolute reduction of 13.2%) in non-return of gut function at 3 days
post-op (or if the event rate is lower, the same power to detect a 40% relative
reduction from 30% to 18% (a 12% absolute reduction)). There should be no missing
primary outcome data (see section 6.5.4).
Planned open surgery stratum:
We estimate that for every 2-3 laparoscopic cases we expect to randomise one open
case. However there is considerable uncertainty in this estimate as different units have
different levels of laparoscopic expertise, and different attitudes to forgoing epidural
anaesthesia for open cases. We have chosen 200 cases as the upper limit for analysis
using a group sequential interim analysis approach to assess recruitment and effect
size as the trial proceeds. However the DMC will assess the data after 100 patients to
assess rate of recruitment and estimate effect size.
Update: June 2020. The DMC met in November 2019 and the TSC in February 2020.
Following discussion, recruitment to the parallel exploratory RCT of open surgery
cases was closed in June 2020 because of slow accrual of such cases.

4.2

INCLUSION CRITERIA

Patients scheduled for elective minimally invasive (laparoscopic or robotic) colorectal
resection for colorectal cancer, benign polyps, benign stricture or diverticular disease
at participating UK colorectal surgery units. Right hemicolectomy, extended right
hemicolectomy, left colectomy, sigmoid colectomy, subtotal colectomy with ileosigmoid
or ileorectal anastomosis and high anterior resection are eligible.

4.3

EXCLUSION CRITERIA

Planned epidural anaesthesia
Planned regional or local continuous infusion of lidocaine at the same time as lidocaine
infusion (see section 6.7.3 for prohibited concurrent medication)
Planned open surgery
Current pregnancy*
Breastfeeding
Age <18 years
Patients lacking capacity to give informed consent.
Known or suspected allergy to lidocaine or amide-type local anaesthetics
Current complete heart block
Current severe liver dysfunction (Child’s A or greater)
Current renal failure (eGFR<30)
Patients participating in the active intervention phase of another therapeutic clinical
trial (or other interventional trial) unless a co-enrolment agreement is in place
Patients having surgery for indications other than those noted above
Rectal cancer below the peritoneal reflection in which total mesorectal excision is
planned
Rectal cancer patients who have received any neoadjuvant radiotherapy
A preoperative surgical plan to form any new stoma during the primary procedure
CR007-T01v3.0
Page 20 of 61

