ALLEGRO
Version 8 21 December 2022
IRAS 231280

(CHaRT) based within the University of Aberdeen. Participants will be randomised
using either a telephone Interactive Voice Response (IVR) randomisation application
or via the web based application. The CTU provides a 24 h randomisation web based
service.
Randomisation for the study will be allocated on a 1:1 basis to either lidocaine or
placebo.
Factors for minimisation :
Age (<50 years, 50-74 years, 75 years and older)
Gender
Trial centre
5.4.2 Treatment Allocation
Blinding: participants, medical staff and study staff/outcome assessors will all be
blinded in this study. Both study drug and placebo are clear colourless liquids and will
be packaged in identical containers. Upon randomisation the participant will be
allocated a unique participant study number and assigned a numbered participant
pack. Randomisation will trigger a notification email to pharmacy.
5.4.3 Emergency Unblinding Procedures
The treatment of systemic lidocaine toxicity is supportive treatment and lipid rescue.
In the event of characteristic symptoms in a trial patient (see section 6.6.1) it is
appropriate to assume lidocaine toxicity, stop the infusion and treat side-effects as per
current Association of Anaesthetists of Great Britain and Ireland guidelines without
having to wait for code breaks/permissions etc. If necessary, the investigator can
unblind a participant’s treatment allocation via the trial database.
In the event of a SUSAR, the Sponsor will unblind treatment allocation (via access to
the database) in order to comply with ethics and regulatory reporting requirements.
In the event of a minimally invasive procedure converting to an open procedure, if
necessary, the investigator can unblind a participant’s treatment allocation via the trial
database to make clinical decisions about dose calculation of additional local
anaesthetic agents, for example rectus sheath catheters or epidurals. . Treatment
allocation should be concealed from study staff gathering outcome data.
The trial office will be alerted in any cases of unblinding (but will not be unblinded) and
a full audit trail will be maintained.

5.5

SCREENING FOR ELIGIBILITY

As noted above, participant eligibility will be verified by a clinical trial physician (named
on the trial delegation log to carry out this role) prior to randomisation. Confirmation of
eligibility will be recorded within the participants’ medical records and on the case
report form.
As noted above, patients will be identified through a number of routes. This will involve
members of the clinical team screening identifiable personal information within the
existing hospital data systems.
Pregnancy testing on women of childbearing age is part of normal routine preoperative
assessment.
CR007-T01v3.0
Page 23 of 61

