ALLEGRO
Version 7 15 November 2022
IRAS 231280

since it was conducted under real-world NHS conditions on NHS patients typical of the
recruitment cohort proposed in this application. It showed that 22 of a total of 50
patients (44%) failed to achieve return of gut function (GI-3 endpoint) by the third
postoperative day.(4) Ten patients (20%) went on to develop PPOI. Interpretation of
data from other healthcare systems is made complex by reporting of various endpoints,
but control arm data support the event rate measured in the Targinact study: Delaney
et al (3) in a prospective analysis of laparoscopic colectomy found the mean time to
GI-2 recovery was 4.4 days, 53% achieved GI-2 by 3 days, with PPOI in 10%. Adam
MA et al in a prospective analysis examining the drug Alvimopan in 660 participants,
of which about 3 in 5 were laparoscopic, 16% of controls had PPOI(17). Estimated
effect size is also beset by varying endpoints: from the Sun et al meta-analysis of IV
lidocaine (9) , there was about a 20% (open) and 13% (laparoscopic) improvement in
mean time to bowel movement. The Kranke et al Cochrane meta-analysis (8) reported
a risk ratio of 0.38 for PPOI in favour of IV lidocaine vs placebo with an event rate of
around 14% in controls. A small (n=40) RCT by Kaba et al(11) showed around 40%
relative risk reduction in time to first flatus and time to first stool, whereas the Herroeder
et al(18) RCT of a similar size (n=60) showed smaller relative risk reductions (~25%)
for similar outcomes, as did the Tikuisis study(12)(n=60), ~20%.
So although the evidence base specifically for IV lidocaine in laparoscopic (and open)
surgery is not extensive, there do seem to be consistent signals of benefit across a
range of outcomes. Therefore, with a sample size of 562 randomised 1:1 to IV lidocaine
or placebo the study will have 90% power at a 2-sided 5% level of significance to detect
a relative reduction of 33% from 40% to 26.8% (absolute reduction of 13.2%) in nonreturn of gut function at 3 days post-op (or if the event rate is lower, the same power to
detect a 40% relative reduction from 30% to 18% (a 12% absolute reduction)). Given the
day 3 measure is in hospital there should be no appreciable loss to follow up (the
perioperative death rate is ~1% for the whole duration of hospital stay and the very few
discharged before 3 days can be assumed to have achieved return of gut function).
This size of study would also give us similar power to detect a difference of 10% (from
20% to 10%) in the important secondary outcome of PPOI.
The sample size of 562 refers to only minimally invasive surgery cases, and is fully
powered for this group.
Open cases will be analysed entirely separately. We will use a group sequential interim
analysis approach to maximise our ability to generate sufficient evidence to estimate
the effectiveness. The details of this approach will be specified at a first scoping
meeting of the iDMC after around 100 open surgery participants with mature data –
this will allow us to estimate (a) the likely number of open recruits we will get while fully
randomising to the definitive laparoscopic stratum, and (b) get a reasonable idea about
what the aggregate event rate for the primary outcome in the open surgery cases is,
so enabling us to calibrate the group sequential plans.
Update: June 2020. Recruitment to the parallel exploratory RCT of open surgery cases
was closed in June 2020 because of slow accrual of such cases. Revisions to the
planned analysis of data from the open cases will be documented in the Statistics
Analysis Plan.

10.2

PROPOSED ANALYSES

All baseline and outcome data will be described using appropriate summary statistics,
e.g. frequency and proportions for dichotomous data, mean and standard deviation for
continuous data, and graphical methods. The primary outcome will be analysed using
a generalised linear model with a logit link function and including minimisation
covariates. Secondary outcomes will analysed in a similar manner using a statistical
model appropriate for the outcome (Cox regression for time-to-event outcomes, linear
CR007-T01v3.0
Page 41 of 61

