ALLEGRO
Version 8 21 December 2022
IRAS 231280

5.2

CONSENTING PARTICIPANTS

Recruitment and consent will take place prior to surgery.
Where face-to-face consent is possible, a member of the trial team will explain the trial
and time will be allocated for questions and discussion prior to surgery. The patient
and a member of the local ALLEGRO trial team (delegated this activity) will both sign
the consent form. The original will be retained in the site file. A copy will be given to the
participant to keep. Copies will also be filed in the hospital notes and Trial Master File.
If face-to-face consent is not possible, the consent form will be sent to the potential
participant along with the patient information leaflet (see above). A telephone number
for the research team will be provided so that potential participants can ask any
questions or seek clarification. A designated member of the ALLEGRO site team will
contact the potential participant and conduct the consent discussion with them over the
phone and ask the participant to initial, sign and date the consent form during the
discussion – we are describing this as “verbal confirmation of written consent”. The
ALLEGRO team member will document the discussion in the patient medical
notes. The participant will be asked to either return the consent form by post or to bring
the consent form with them when they attend for surgery. When the consent form is
returned, the member of the local site research team with delegated responsibility for
consent and who conducted the consent discussion over the phone will countersign
and date the consent form. If that person is not available to countersign before
administration of the IMP, then another member of the ALLEGRO site team should
have a further consent discussion with the participant and then countersign the consent
form. The date of countersignature should not be earlier than the date of the participant
signature, but may be later. To give sufficient time for the IMP prescription to be
generated and signed, and for the pharmacy team to prepare and dispense the IMP
prior to surgery, the participant may need to be randomised after verbal confirmation
of written consent, but before the hard copy of the consent form is received back by
the study team. Participant eligibility will be verified by a clinical trial physician prior to
randomisation – this verification of eligibility will be done around the time of verbal
confirmation of written consent or on receipt of the hard copy consent form. The
consent form must be received by the site study team before administration of IMP. If
the patient does not post it back or bring it with them when they attend for surgery,
there should be a further consent discussion and a new copy of the consent form
should be completed prior to administration of the IMP.
Throughout a participant’s involvement in a study, consent is an on-going process, and
should re-confirmed verbally prior to ANY research activity taking place.
A letter will be sent to the participant’s GP to inform them of their participation.

5.3

INELIGIBLE AND NON-RECRUITED PARTICIPANTS

Ineligible and non-recruited patients will receive surgery and perioperative care
according to normal participating unit standard practice.

5.4

RANDOMISATION

5.4.1 Randomisation Procedures
After either verbal confirmation of written consent (as described above) or the hard
copy consent has been received from the participant and all eligibility criteria have been
met, the member of the local research team will randomise the participant via the
Clinical Trials Unit (CTU). The CTU is the Centre for Healthcare Randomised Trials
CR007-T01v3.0
Page 22 of 61

