ALLEGRO
Version 7 15 November 2022
IRAS 231280

be filed in the participant medical notes. A copy will also be held in the TMF.
14.3.2 Study Site Staff
The Investigator must be familiar with the IMP, protocol and the study requirements. It is the
Investigator’s responsibility to ensure that all staff assisting with the study are adequately
informed about the IMP, protocol and their trial related duties.
14.3.3 Data Recording
The Principal Investigator is responsible for the quality of the data recorded in the CRF at
each Investigator Site. The source data plan identifies which source data correspond to CRF
data and states which data are recorded directly into the CRF.
14.3.4 Investigator Documentation
Prior to beginning the study, each Investigator will be asked to provide particular essential
documents to the ACCORD Research Governance & QA Office, including but not limited to:


An original signed Investigator’s Declaration (as part of the Clinical Trial
Agreement documents);



Curriculum vitae (CV) signed and dated by the Investigator indicating that it is
accurate and current.

ACCORD will ensure all other documents required by ICH GCP are retained in a Trial
Master File (TMF) or Sponsor File, where required. The Principal Investigator will ensure
that the required documentation is available in local Investigator Site files (ISFs). Under
certain circumstances the TMF responsibilities may be delegated to the research team by
ACCORD.
14.3.5 GCP Training
All study staff must hold evidence of appropriate GCP training or training commensurate with
their role.
14.3.6 Confidentiality
All evaluation forms, reports, and other records must be identified in a manner designed to
maintain participant confidentiality. All records must be kept in a secure storage area with
limited access. Clinical information will not be released without the written permission of the
participant. The Investigator and study site staff involved with this study may not disclose or
use for any purpose other than performance of the study, any data, record, or other
unpublished, confidential information disclosed to those individuals for the purpose of the
study. Prior written agreement from the sponsor or its designee must be obtained for the
disclosure of any said confidential information to other parties.
14.3.7 Data Protection
All Investigators and study site staff involved with this study must comply with the
requirements of the Data Protection Act 2018 with regard to the collection, storage,
processing and disclosure of personal information and will uphold the Act’s core principles.
Access to collated participant data will be restricted to individuals from the research team
treating the participants, representatives of the sponsor(s) and representatives of regulatory
authorities.
Computers used to collate the data will have limited access measures via usernames and
passwords.
Published results will not contain any personal data that could allow identification of
individual participants.
CR007-T01v3.0
Page 56 of 61

