ALLEGRO
Version 8 21 December 2022
IRAS 231280

1. INTRODUCTION
1.1

BACKGROUND

Delayed return of gut function is the most common cause of delayed discharge from
hospital after elective colorectal surgery. It is characterised by a temporary cessation
of normal gut propulsive contraction and manifests as nausea, vomiting, constipation
and abdominal distension. The pathophysiology is complex and involves interaction of
endogenous factors (including pain pathways, host endocrine- and inflammationmediated stress responses, exaggerated sympathetic autonomic activity and
endogenous opioids) and exogenous factors (bowel handling during surgery, opioid
analgesics, anaesthetic agents, immobility). “Postoperative ileus" is the most severe
end of the spectrum. There is no specific therapy; treatment is supportive. Although
self-limiting it prolongs hospital stay by a few days in most cases but can last up to 10
days if severe. (1) Affected patients cannot tolerate oral intake due to nausea and
vomiting and require inpatient support with intravenous fluids and ongoing opioid
analgesia. Although gut transit is absent, digestive fluid continues to be secreted (bile,
gastric acid, pancreatic enzymes) causing ‘third space’ losses, dehydration and
progressive abdominal distension. Many patients require decompression of the fluiddistended gut by insertion of a nasogastric tube, a very uncomfortable experience that
some patients rate worse than the operation itself. Furthermore, in an increasingly
elderly population with increasing frailty, the development of gut dysfunction can
contribute to other major complications including pulmonary aspiration, pneumonia and
acute kidney impairment.
There are no specific preventative or therapeutic interventions to induce return of gut
function in current use. Alvimopan (Entereg®) is a selective μ-opioid receptor
antagonist evaluated in a number of North American RCTs where it has been shown
to be of benefit in reducing incidence of postoperative ileus.(2) However, it has not
gained widespread use due to cost and concerns regarding its cardiac side-effect
profile. It is not licensed for use in the UK.
In the previous era of open colorectal surgery, many surgeons regarded delayed return
of gut function as a “normal” part of a prolonged post-operative recovery. Accordingly,
the true prevalence was seldom recorded; best estimates suggest it affected up to 40%
of cases. However, in the last decade a revolution has occurred in colorectal surgery.
Minimally invasive “key-hole” surgical techniques (laparoscopic or robotic)() and
evidence-based “Enhanced Recovery” peri-operative management care pathways
have reduced average length of hospital stay from 9 days to 4-6 days, and have of
themselves reduced the prevalence of delayed return of gut function. Paradoxically,
these improved results have highlighted a group of patients for whom delayed return
of gut function forms the main barrier to discharge. As a result of modern care, most
patients are independently mobile, requiring no or only low dose oral analgesics and
are free from IV fluids and invasive monitoring (e.g. urinary catheters) within 48-72
hours. However, only half will have regained gut function by this time-point (3, 4);
furthermore, 10-20% will go on to develop prolonged postoperative ileus (PPOI),
defined as gut function failing to return by the 5th postoperative day.(4-6).
It should be emphasised that minimally invasive techniques have not replaced open
colorectal surgery entirely. A colectomy can be undertaken by either method and the
choice is made by the operating surgeon according to a number of factors, including
his/her training and experience, technical complexity of the planned procedure and
patient comorbidity. There has been a steady increase in minimally invasive colectomy
in the UK over the last 5 years: data from the National Bowel Cancer Audit indicate an
increase from 25% in 2010 to >50% in 2016 although in specialist centres this figure is
CR007-T01v3.0
Page 12 of 61

