ALLEGRO
Version 7 15 November 2022
IRAS 231280

The Investigator will then notify the MHRA (clintrialhelpline@mhra.gov.uk), the REC and
ACCORD, in writing of the measures taken and the reason for the measures within 3 days
by submitting a substantial amendment.

15.4

SERIOUS BREACH REQUIREMENTS

A serious breach is a breach which is likely to effect to a significant degree:
(a) the safety or physical or mental integrity of the participants of the trial; or
(b) the scientific value of the trial.
If a potential serious breach is identified by the Chief investigator, Principal Investigator or
delegates, the co-sponsors (QA@accord.scot) must be notified within 24 hours. It is the
responsibility of the co-sponsors to assess the impact of the breach on the scientific value
of the trial, to determine whether the incident constitutes a serious breach and report to
regulatory authorities and research ethics committees as necessary.

15.5

STUDY RECORD RETENTION

All study documentation will be kept for a minimum of 10 years from the protocol defined end
of study point. When the minimum retention period has elapsed, study documentation will
not be destroyed without permission from the sponsor.

15.6

END OF STUDY

The end of study is the last clinical follow-up which is defined as the last participant’s last
clinical data collection (day 90).
The Investigators and/or the trial steering committee and/or the co-sponsor(s) have the right
at any time to terminate the study for clinical or administrative reasons.
The end of the study will be reported to the REC, Regulatory Authority, R&D Office(s) and
co-sponsors within 90 days, or 15 days if the study is terminated prematurely. The
Investigators will inform participants of the premature study closure and ensure that the
appropriate follow up is arranged for all participants involved. End of study notification will
be reported to the co-sponsors via email to resgov@ed.ac.uk.
In accordance with ACCORD SOP CR011, a Clinical Study Report (CSR) will be provided
to the Sponsor (QA@accord.scot) and REC within 1 year of the end of the study.
Upon completion of the study, the Investigator will upload clinical trial results onto the
EudraCT database on behalf of the Sponsor.
The Investigator will submit a short confirmatory e-mail to the MHRA
(CT.Submission@mhra.gov.uk) once the result-related information has been uploaded to
EudraCT, with ‘End of trial: result-related information: EudraCT 2017-003835-12 as the
subject line. The Sponsor(s) will be copied in this e-mail (QA@accord.scot). It should be
noted that you will not get an acknowledgment e-mail or letter from the MHRA.

15.7

CONTINUATION OF DRUG FOLLOWING THE END OF STUDY

Not applicable – participants will be given a single infusion of lidocaine (or placebo) at the
time of their colorectal surgery.

15.8

INSURANCE AND INDEMNITY

The co-sponsors are responsible for ensuring proper provision has been made for insurance
or indemnity to cover their liability and the liability of the Chief Investigator and staff.

CR007-T01v3.0
Page 58 of 61

