ALLEGRO
Version 8 21 December 2022
IRAS 231280

due to unforeseen intraoperative surgical complications or technical problems with the
infusion kit (e.g. inadvertent disconnection of giving set or infusion pump failure). These
patients will be included within the intention to treat analysis.

6.5

PARTICIPANT COMPLIANCE

Since this is an in-hospital study with short duration of study drug/placebo infusion it is
unlikely that non-compliance will be an issue. Monitoring the infusion will be a
documented part of normal nursing care. A single container dispensed by pharmacy
will contain sufficient drug/placebo to avoid necessity for the infusion being
changed/running out.

6.6

OVERDOSE

The following strategies are in place to minimise the potential for Lidocaine overdose:
 It is a hospital-based study with infusion rate calculation and administration
overseen by senior anaesthetic staff;
 A limited amount of the drug will be provided for each patient;
 Patients with severe liver or renal impairment in whom lidocaine metabolism is
impaired are specifically excluded;
 Co-administration of lidocaine via other routes which may increase systemic
levels (e.g. epidural, regional or local infiltration) is specifically contraindicated
and this will be emphasised in the trial operation manual.
 Overdose is most likely to occur through operator error (setting the infusion rate
wrongly) or pump failure. Although the dose is calculated by ideal body weight
there will in practice be a relatively narrow range of infusion rates and the trial
operation manual will emphasise the appropriate range of values.
6.6.1

Symptoms of Lidocaine Acute Systemic Toxicity

Central nervous system toxicity presents with symptoms of increasing severity.
Patients may present initially with circumoral paraesthesia, numbness of the tongue,
light-headedness, hyperacusis and tinnitus. Visual disturbance and muscular tremors
or muscle twitching are more serious and precede the onset of generalised
convulsions. These signs must not be mistaken for neurotic behaviour.
Unconsciousness and grand mal convulsions may follow, which may last from a few
seconds to several minutes. Hypoxia and hypercapnia occur rapidly following
convulsions due to increased muscular activity, together with the interference with
normal respiration and loss of the airway. In severe cases, apnoea may occur. Acidosis
increases the toxic effects of local anaesthetics.
Effects on the cardiovascular system may be seen in severe cases. Hypotension,
bradycardia, arrhythmia and cardiac arrest may occur as a result of high systemic
concentrations, with potentially fatal outcome.
Reduction of lidocaine levels occurs due to redistribution from the central nervous
system and metabolism. Recovery will only occur with appropriate active management
of the symptoms of toxicity up to and including cardiac arrest.
6.6.2

Treatment of Lidocaine Acute Toxicity

If signs of acute systemic toxicity appear, infusion of lidocaine should be stopped
immediately. Participants should be reviewed urgently by a senior anaesthetist and
closely observed for signs of progression of toxicity. Lipid rescue should be considered
early if there are clinical signs of deterioration and the patient has received a significant
dose of lidocaine.
CR007-T01v3.0
Page 28 of 61

