ALLEGRO
Version 8 21 December 2022
IRAS 231280








Time to first flatus
Time to first bowel movement
Time to tolerating solid food
Achievement of medical criteria for discharge Y/N
Patient-reported readiness for discharge
Adverse events

Daily up to and including day 7, participants will be asked to complete a questionnaire
comprising:
 QoR score
 OBAS score
 EQ-5D
At discharge
At discharge, the following data will be collected from medical records/ prescription
chart
 Length of stay (days)
 Complications
 Mortality
 Analgesic and anti-emetic medication
Post-Operative Day 7 (+/- 3 days)
On day 7, participants will be asked to complete a questionnaire comprising the OBAS,
QoR and EQ-5D. Participants who have been discharged from hospital prior to day 7
will be contacted by telephone by the local CRN/study team to collect the data. If the
patient cannot be contacted on day 7, further attempts will be made to contact the
patient by telephone until day 10. Participants who have not been discharged by day 7
will be asked by a member of the research team (e.g. Research Nurse) to complete
the questionnaire in hospital.
Day 30 (+/- 7 days)
At day 30 following the date of surgery, in hospital mortality will be confirmed from
medical records. Participants who were discharged from hospital will be contacted by
telephone by the local research team to collect the following data:
 QoR
 EQ-5D
 Complications
 Unplanned hospital readmissions
 Self-reported use of primary care services
 Adverse events
It is acknowledged that participants may not complete questionnaires for example they
may be too unwell. Non-completion of a participant questionnaire (at any time-point)
will not be documented on a deviation log. Instead, questionnaire non-compliance will
be collected through the ALLEGRO database
Day 90 (+/- 7 days)
At day 90, following the date of surgery, in hospital mortality will be confirmed from
medical records. Patients who were discharged from hospital will be contacted by
telephone to collect the following data:
 EQ-5D
 Unplanned hospital admissions after day 30 up to day 90.
It is acknowledged that participants may not complete questionnaires for example they
may be too unwell. Non-completion of a participant questionnaire (at any time-point)
CR007-T01v3.0
Page 34 of 61

