ALLEGRO
Version 8 21 December 2022
IRAS 231280

benefits of modern colorectal surgery.
There are compelling reasons to include open colectomy cases in a parallel exploratory
RCT: the prevalence of delayed return of gut function and PPOI after open colectomy
is higher than in laparoscopic colectomy; open surgery continues to be used for a
substantial minority of UK cases; findings would be more generalisable to other
abdominal procedures most commonly performed by open surgery (e.g. liver and
oesophagogastric surgery); and collecting data on such open surgery cases using the
trial infrastructure would represent good value for money. The primary outcome event
rate is likely to be higher in open cases, and there is some evidence to suggest that
the effect size may be greater too, which would suggest a smaller trial is needed in
open cases (which is fortuitous given there is likely to be 2-3 laparoscopic cases for
every open case, although there is considerable uncertainty in that estimate). However,
open cases are associated with more variation in anaesthesia, surgery and
postoperative care and the signal to noise ratio will be different. We propose to use a
group sequential interim analysis approach to the open study to maximise flexibility in
achieving optimal evidence in this arm.
Update: June 2020. Recruitment to the parallel exploratory RCT of open surgery cases
was closed in June 2020 because of slow accrual of such cases (see section 4.1 for
further details).
Intravenous lidocaine is cheap, safe and easy to administer within existing NHS
perioperative practice, and offers to accelerate return of gut function and hence shorten
postoperative recovery. These benefits taken cumulatively could translate into a more
rapid recovery with a shorter hospital stay for many patients; reduction in the incidence
of PPOI; and a significant reduction in bed occupancy and complications consequent
on gut dysfunction, potentially achieving a major cost saving for the NHS from a
common (and resource-intensive) procedure.

2. STUDY OBJECTIVES
2.1

OBJECTIVES

2.1.1 Primary Objective
The primary aim is an effectiveness analysis to measure whether perioperative
intravenous lidocaine achieves faster return of gut function for more patients after
minimally invasive colorectal surgery. The primary outcome will be the proportion of
randomised subjects compared between IV lidocaine and placebo that have achieved
return of gut function at 72 hours postoperatively. This will be measured by ‘GI-3
recovery’ -a composite endpoint defined as achievement of both of the following two
events: tolerating diet (defined as ingestion of food and drink without significant nausea
or vomiting for 3 consecutive meals) and passage of flatus OR stool (whichever comes
first).

2.1.2 Secondary Objectives




to measure whether perioperative intravenous lidocaine is effective in achieving
faster postoperative return of gut function measured by GI-2 recovery (defined
as the time to achieving both of the following two events: tolerating diet (defined
as ingestion of food and drink without significant nausea or vomiting for 3
consecutive meals) and passage of stool.[1, 2])
to detect an absolute reduction of 10% (from 20% to 10%) in the rate of
Prolonged Postoperative Ileus (PPOI= failure to establish GI-3 by postoperative
CR007-T01v3.0
Page 15 of 61

