ALLEGRO
Version 7 15 November 2022
IRAS 231280

monitoring activities as necessary. ACCORD QA personnel, or designees, will perform study
audits in accordance with the study audit plan. This will involve investigator site audits, study
management audits and facility (including 3rd parties) audits as necessary.

14. GOOD CLINICAL PRACTICE
14.1

ETHICAL CONDUCT

The study will be conducted in accordance with the principles of the International
Conference on Harmonisation Tripartite Guideline for Good Clinical Practice (ICH GCP).
Before the study can commence, all required approvals will be obtained and any conditions
of approvals will be met. A favorable ethical opinion will be obtained from the appropriate
REC and local R&D approval will be obtained prior to commencement of the study.

14.2

REGULATORY COMPLIANCE

The study will not commence until a Clinical Trial Authorisation (CTA) is obtained from the
appropriate Regulatory Authority. The protocol and study conduct will comply with the
Medicines for Human Use (Clinical Trials) Regulations 2004, as amended.

14.3

INVESTIGATOR RESPONSIBILITIES

The Investigator is responsible for the overall conduct of the study at the site and compliance
with the protocol and any protocol amendments. In accordance with the principles of ICH
GCP, the following areas listed in this section are also the responsibility of the Investigator.
Responsibilities may be delegated to an appropriate member of study site staff.
Delegated tasks must be documented on a Delegation Log and signed by all those named
on the list prior to undertaking applicable study-related procedures.

14.3.1 Informed Consent
The Investigator is responsible for ensuring informed consent is obtained before any study
specific procedures are carried out. The decision of a participant to participate in clinical
research is voluntary and should be based on a clear understanding of what is involved.
Participants must receive adequate oral and written information – appropriate Participant
Information and Informed Consent Forms will be provided. The oral explanation to the
participant will be performed by the Investigator or qualified delegated person, and must
cover all the elements specified in the Participant Information Sheet and Consent Form.
The participant must be given every opportunity to clarify any points they do not understand
and, if necessary, ask for more information. The participant must begiven sufficient time to
consider the information provided. It should be emphasised that the participant may
withdraw their consent to participate at any time without loss of benefits to which they
otherwise would be entitled.
The participant will be informed and agree to their medical records being inspected by
regulatory authorities and representatives of the sponsor(s) but understand that their name
will not be disclosed outside the hospital.
The Investigator or delegated member of the trial team and the participant will sign and date
the Informed Consent Form(s) to confirm that consent has been obtained. The original will
be signed in the Investigator Site File (ISF). The participant will retain a copy and a copy will
CR007-T01v3.0
Page 55 of 61

