ALLEGRO
Version 7 15 November 2022
IRAS 231280

The following arrangements are in place to fulfil the co-sponsors' responsibilities:
□

The Protocol has been authored by the Chief Investigator and researchers
employed by the University and collaborators. The University has insurance in
place (which includes no-fault compensation) for negligent harm caused by poor
protocol design by the Chief Investigator and researchers employed by the
University.

□

Sites participating in the study will be liable for clinical negligence and other
negligent harm to individuals taking part in the study and covered by the duty of
care owed to them by the sites concerned. The co-sponsors require individual sites
participating in the study to arrange for their own insurance or indemnity in respect
of these liabilities. Sites which are part of the United Kingdom's National Health
Service have the benefit of NHS Indemnity.

□

Sites out with the United Kingdom will be responsible for arranging their own
indemnity or insurance for their participation in the study, as well as for compliance
with local law applicable to their participation in the study.

□

The manufacturer supplying IMP has accepted limited liability related to the
manufacturing and original packaging of the study drug and to the losses,
damages, claims or liabilities incurred by study participants based on known or
unknown Adverse Events which arise out of the manufacturing and original
packaging of the study drug, but not where there is any modification to the study
drug (including without limitation re-packaging and blinding).

16. REPORTING, PUBLICATIONS AND NOTIFICATION OF
RESULTS
16.1

AUTHORSHIP POLICY

Ownership of the data arising from this study resides with the study team. On completion of
the study, the study data will be analysed and tabulated, and a clinical study report will be
prepared in accordance with ICH guidelines.

16.2

PUBLICATION

The Clinical Study Report (CSR) will be submitted to the Sponsor and REC within 1 year of
the end of the study. Where acceptable, a published journal article may be submitted as the
CSR. The Chief Investigator will provide the CSR to ACCORD, for review, prior to
finalization. The clinical study report may be used for publication and presentation at
scientific meetings. Investigators have the right to publish orally or in writing the results of
the study. The results of the study, together with other mandated information, will be
uploaded to the European clinical trials database within 1 year of the end of the study.
Summaries of results will also be made available to Investigators for dissemination within
their clinics (where appropriate and according to their discretion).

16.3

DATA SHARING

Consent will be sought from participants to permit sharing of anonymised data with funders
and collaborators or published on publically available resources as appropriate.

17. PEER REVIEW
The protocol/trial design has been peer reviewed by all authors (HMP, AB, SN, IF, JN, DS);
by the CHaRT study team (GM, SC, SC, AM); and by the funder (NIHR-HTA).
CR007-T01v3.0
Page 59 of 61

