ALLEGRO
Version 8 21 December 2022
IRAS 231280

NHS patients undergoing laparoscopic/robotic colectomy , to confirm these promising
findings and quantify with sufficient precision the benefits from the patient and clinical
perspectives. It would be important for example if IV lidocaine did not, in fact, deliver
these benefits to then know that the search for effective interventions for what is by
consensus a very important issue for patients and the NHS needs to develop in
different directions. Equally, if as we hope, the promising benefits are confirmed, then
that would give high-quality evidence- backed impetus to the widespread uptake of this
intervention in routine clinical practice.

1.2

RATIONALE FOR STUDY

Scale of the problem in the UK and use of NHS resources
Delayed return of gut function is particularly prevalent after colorectal surgery but it can
occur after other types of abdominal surgery and even in non-abdominal procedures,
particularly spinal and orthopaedic operations. It is less prevalent where bowel is not
resected (e.g. gynaecological surgery) and more prevalent in emergency compared
with elective procedures, and in open compared with laparoscopic procedures.
Colorectal surgery is common, being undertaken in every acute hospital throughout the
world. Approximately 30,000 colorectal resections per year are undertaken in the UK
(HES data 2013/14). Reducing the prevalence of delayed return of gut function and
prolonged postoperative ileus would accelerate recovery, avoid some of the more
unpleasant aspects of supportive treatment (nasogastric tube insertion, repeated
venous cannulation for IV fluids) and allow more patients to get home more quickly.
For the NHS there would be a cost saving associated with reduction in bed occupancy
and reduced supportive treatments for what is a common complication of a common
procedure. It is likely that any benefit found using the “model” of colorectal surgery
would be applicable to other abdominal surgery procedures. The objective of the study
aligns well with the current national dissemination of Enhanced Recovery after Surgery
programmes (an evidence-based package of perioperative care measures shown to
reduce length of stay and complications after surgery) by the UK Department of Health
and Scottish Government. If as hoped IV lidocaine is effective in improving recovery
from abdominal surgery it could be effective across a number of specialties and benefit
many patients as an affordable, safe and easy-to-use treatment.
Patient and public involvement
The Association of ColoProctology of Great Britain and Ireland (ACPGBI) in
collaboration with the Bowel Disease Research Foundation (BDRF) recently held a
Delphi exercise to create a shortlist of research priorities in colorectal surgery.
Following a patient consultation meeting in which research topics were prioritised, a
group of interested stakeholders including patients, clinicians and specialist nurses met
in April 2015 to discuss approaches to answering the question: “How can postoperative
ileus be reduced?”. This topic received considerable attention from patients involved
with the BDRF, many of whom had experienced the consequences of postoperative
ileus (“the NG (nasogastric) tube is the worst thing ever. Worst complication. I still have
nightmares about having that tube in my nose”). Following discussion of the evidence
available, a trial of intravenous lidocaine was proposed. This was strongly supported
by the ACPGBI and BDRF.
Discharge from hospital after colorectal surgery is inextricably linked to functional gut
recovery.(4, 15, 16) With modern care most patients undergoing laparoscopic
colectomy are independently mobile, requiring no or minimal oral analgesics and free
from IV fluids and invasive monitoring (e.g. urinary catheters) within 48-72 hours.
However, only half will have regained gut function by this time-point and 10-20% will
go on to PPOI. The success of laparoscopic techniques and evidence-based
perioperative care in accelerating recovery has highlighted that delayed return of gut
function has become the main barrier to discharge for a significant proportion of
laparoscopic colectomy patients. It is the main problem to be solved to exploit the full
CR007-T01v3.0
Page 14 of 61

