ALLEGRO
Version 8 21 December 2022
IRAS 231280

NIMP(s)

Placebo: 0.9% Sodium Chloride.
Return of gut function is fundamental to recovery after
abdominal surgery. Up to 40% of patients suffer delayed
return of gut function after colorectal surgery, manifesting
as nausea, vomiting, constipation and abdominal
distension. It is the most common reason for delayed
discharge from hospital. Delayed return of gut function is
multifactorial: opioid analgesia side effects, host autonomic
nervous system imbalance, anaesthesia, intraoperative gut
handling and the operation itself have all been implicated.
There is currently no remedy to induce return of gut
function; treatment is supportive until gut function returns
spontaneously (IV fluids, nasogastric tube insertion,
analgesia). Affected patients can spend 1-10 extra days in
hospital compared to those who have a straightforward
recovery.

Lay Summary of Trial

IV lidocaine has been used in the past as an adjunct to
anaesthesia. Its mode of action is poorly understood but it
appears to have anti-inflammatory properties, is opioidsparing (i.e. it reduces requirements for opioid analgesia
and therefore reduces the chance of opioid-associated
side-effects (nausea, constipation, hallucinations etc)) and
induces a sense of well-being and even euphoria. There is
also data suggesting it improves return of gut function after
colorectal surgery, for example by reducing nausea and
reducing time from surgery to first bowel movement.
We wish to test the hypothesis that perioperative IV
lidocaine will reduce delayed return of gut function after
elective colorectal surgery. Minimally invasive colorectal
surgery (laparoscopic and robotic) has short-term recovery
benefits and is likely to become the default choice in >75%
of resections in the next 10 years. Therefore, the study is
powered
to
test
the
primary
hypothesis
in
laparoscopic/robotic segmental colectomy (total sample
size 562 patients).
The primary study outcome will be return of gut function
after surgery defined by the previously validated GI-3
endpoint; secondary outcomes will include other patientreported aspects of recovery, analgesia, length of stay and
safety endpoints

CR007-T01v3.0
Page 11 of 61

