ALLEGRO
Version 7 15 November 2022
IRAS 231280

11.4.2 Assessment of Causality
The Investigator will make an assessment of whether the AE/SAE is likely to be related to the
IMP according to the definitions below.


Unrelated: where an event is not considered to be related to the IMP.



Possibly Related: The nature of the event, the underlying medical condition,
concomitant medication or temporal relationship make it possible that the AE has a
causal relationship to the study drug. The assessment of causality will be made
against the reference safety information found in the reference safety information of
the SmPC (section 4).

The trial protocol does not specify non-Investigational Medicinal Products. However,
participants will receive standard analgesia and anti-emetic regimes as per normal practice
in each participating unit. If an AE is considered to be related to an interaction between the
IMP and any concomitant medication, or where the AE might be linked to either the IMP or
the concomitant medication but cannot be clearly attributed to either one of these, the event
will be considered as an AR. Alternative causes such as natural history of the underlying
disease, other risk factors and the temporal relationship of the event to the treatment should
be considered and investigated. The blind should not be broken for the purpose of making
this assessment.
11.4.3 Assessment of Expectedness
If the event is an AR/SAR the evaluation of expectedness will be made based on knowledge
of the reaction and the relevant product information documented in the SmPC.
The event may be classed as either:
Expected: the AR/SAR is consistent with the toxicity of the IMP listed in the SmPC
Unexpected: the AR/SAR is not consistent with the toxicity in the SmPC.
11.4.4 Assessment of Severity
The Investigator will make an assessment of severity for each AE/SAE/SAR/SUSAR and
record this on the CRF/AR log or SAE form according to one of the following categories:
Mild: an event that is easily tolerated by the participant, causing minimal discomfort and
not interfering with every day activities.
Moderate: an event that is sufficiently discomforting to interfere with normal everyday
activities.
Severe: an event that prevents normal everyday activities.
Note: the term ‘severe’, used to describe the intensity, should not be confused with ‘serious’
which is a regulatory definition based on participant/event outcome or action criteria. For
example, a headache may be severe but not serious, while a minor stroke is serious but may
not be severe.

11.5

REPORTING OF SAEs/SARs/SUSARs

Once the Investigator becomes aware that an SAE has occurred in a study participant, the
information will be reported to the ACCORD Research Governance within 24 hours. If the
Investigator does not have all information regarding an SAE, they should not wait for this
additional information before notifying ACCORD. The SAE report form can be updated when
the additional information is received.
CR007-T01v3.0
Page 46 of 61

