ALLEGRO
Version 8 21 December 2022
IRAS 231280

Treatment will be required if convulsions and CNS depression occurs. The objectives
of treatment are to maintain oxygenation, stop the convulsions and support the
circulation. Lipid rescue should also be instituted as per the Association of
Anaesthetists of Great Britain and Ireland guidelines (Management of severe local
anaesthetic toxicity 2010, available at http://www.aagbi.org/publications/publicationsguidelines/M/R).
A patent airway should be established and oxygen should be administered, together
with assisted ventilation (mask and bag) if necessary. The circulation should be
maintained with infusions of plasma or intravenous fluids. Where further supportive
treatment of circulatory depression is required, use of a vasopressor agent will be
required. Convulsions should be controlled by the intravenous administration of
Diazepam or Thiopentone Sodium, bearing in mind that anti-convulsant drugs may
also depress respiration and the circulation. It is highly likely that the patient will need
to be intubated and ventilated to control hypoxia and hypercarbia both of which
exacerbate toxicity. If cardiac arrest should occur, standard cardiopulmonary
resuscitation procedures should be instituted. Continual optimal oxygenation and
ventilation and circulatory support as well as treatment of acidosis are of vital
importance.

6.7

OTHER MEDICATIONS

6.7.1

Non-Investigational Medicinal Products

There are no NIMPs specified in the protocol.
6.7.2

Permitted Medications

Standard analgesia regimes as per the normal practice in each participating unit.
Standard anti-emetic regimes as per the normal practice in each participating unit.
All other medications apart from those prohibited below will be permitted.
6.7.3

Prohibited Medications

Additional continuous infusion of any local anaesthetic agent is prohibited during IMP
infusion.
The following single local infiltrations of local anaesthetic are acceptable in an
individual study patient:




1-2ml lidocaine for local anaesthesia to insert spinal or
venous access cannulae.
Up to 3mls of 0.5% bupivacaine as part of the spinal
diamorphine injection
once-only abdominal wound infiltration with up to 20ml of
0.25% levo-bupivacaine (or 40ml of 0.125% levo-bupivacaine)
at the end of surgery; if the patient weighs less than 50kg
(actual weight) these doses should be reduced by 50%)

Caution must be exercised if an epidural containing any local anaesthetic is deemed
necessary for the participant during or in the 24 hours following the IMP infusion, due to
the possibility of toxicity through additive effects.
There are no other prohibited medications.
CR007-T01v3.0
Page 29 of 61

