ALLEGRO
Version 7 15 November 2022
IRAS 231280

13. TRIAL MANAGEMENT AND OVERSIGHT ARRANGEMENTS
13.1

TRIAL MANAGEMENT GROUP

The trial will be coordinated by a Project Management Group, consisting of the grant holders
(Chief Investigator and Principal Investigator in Edinburgh), a Trial Manager and
coordinating nurse.
The Trial Manager will oversee the study and will be accountable to the Chief Investigator.
The Clinical Trial Site Manager will be responsible for checking the CRFs for completeness,
plausibility and consistency. Any queries will be resolved by the Investigator or delegated
member of the trial team.
A Delegation Log will be prepared for each site, detailing the responsibilities of each
member of staff working on the trial.
The trial management group will meet quarterly to review trial progress, address issues etc.
Grantholders and trial staff will be invited to these meetings.

13.2

TRIAL STEERING COMMITTEE

A Trial Steering Committee (TSC) will be established to oversee the conduct and progress
of the trial. The terms of reference of the Trial Steering Committee, the names and contact
details of the members, the roles and responsibilities of the committee and frequency of
their meetings are detailed in CR0015 TSC Charter. The TSC charter will be filed in the
Trial Master File.

13.3

DATA MONITORING COMMITTEE

An independent Data Monitoring Committee (DMC) will be established to oversee the safety
of participants in the trial. The terms of reference of the Data Monitoring Committee, the
names and contact details of the members, the roles and responsibilities of the committee
and frequency of their meetings are detailed in CR0015 DMC Charters.
The DMC Charter will be signed by the appropriate individuals prior to the trial commencing.

13.4

INSPECTION OF RECORDS

Investigators and institutions involved in the study will permit trial related monitoring and
audits on behalf of the sponsor, REC review, and regulatory inspection(s). In the event of
an audit or monitoring, the Investigator agrees to allow the representatives of the sponsor
direct access to all study records and source documentation. In the event of regulatory
inspection, the Investigator agrees to allow inspectors direct access to all study records and
source documentation.

13.5

RISK ASSESSMENT

A study specific risk assessment will be performed by representatives of the co- sponsors,
ACCORD monitors and the QA group, in accordance with ACCORD governance and
sponsorship SOPs. Input will be sought from the Chief Investigator or designee. The
outcomes of the risk assessment will form the basis of the monitoring plans and audit plans.
The risk assessment outcomes will also indicate which risk adaptions could be incorporated
into to trial design.

13.6

STUDY MONITORING AND AUDIT

ACCORD clinical trial monitors, or designees, will perform monitoring activities in
accordance with the study monitoring plan. This will involve on-site visits and remote
CR007-T01v3.0
Page 54 of 61

