ALLEGRO
Version 7 15 November 2022
IRAS 231280

11.3

RECORDING AEs AND SAEs

When an AE/SAE occurs, it is the responsibility of the Investigator, or another suitably
qualified physician in the research team who is delegated to record AEs/SAEs, to review all
documentation (e.g. hospital notes, laboratory and diagnostic reports) related to the event.
The Investigator will then record all relevant information in the AE log and on the SAE form
(if the event meets the criteria of serious).
For SAEs, information to be collected includes dose, type of event, onset date, Investigator
assessment of severity and causality, date of resolution as well as treatment required,
investigations needed and outcome.
11.3.1 Pre-existing Medical Conditions
Pre-existing medical conditions (i.e. existed prior to informed consent) should be recorded
as adverse events if medically judged to have worsened during the study specifically as a
result of the study drug.
11.3.2 Worsening of the Underlying Condition during the Trial
Medical occurrences or symptoms of deterioration that are expected due to the participant’s
underlying condition should be recorded in the patient’s medical notes and recorded on the
AE log if medically judged to have unexpectedly worsened during the study specifically as
a result of the study drug, particularly as some conditions are transiently worsened by
abdominal surgery (e.g. COPD). Events that are consistent with the expected progression
of the underlying disease should not be recorded as AEs.
11.3.3 Common AEs after surgery
The following events are common after surgery and are typically self-limiting:
 pyrexia
 anorexia, nausea, vomiting, constipation, pain
 raised inflammatory markers
 minor wound infections
 dizziness
 transient biochemical derangement eg hypokalaemia, hyonatraemia,
hypomagnesaemia, hypophosphataemia, hypocalcaemia
 transient self-limiting confusional state.

11.4

ASSESSMENT OF AEs AND SAEs

AEs will be captured on the AE log that is part of the CRF. Seriousness, causality, severity
and expectedness will be assessed by the Principal Investigator or other medically qualified
delegate. For randomised double blind studies, AEs will be assessed as though the
participant is taking active IMP. Cases that are considered serious, and possibly, probably
or definitely related to IMP, and unexpected (i.e. SUSARs) will be unblinded by the Sponsor.
The Investigator is responsible for assessing each AE.
This may be delegated to other suitably qualified physicians in the research team who are
trained in recording and reporting AEs.
The Chief Investigator (CI) may not downgrade an event that has been assessed by an
Investigator as an SAE or SUSAR, but can upgrade an AE to an SAE, SAR or SUSAR if
appropriate.
11.4.1 Assessment of Seriousness
The Investigator will make an assessment of seriousness as defined in Section 11.1.

CR007-T01v3.0
Page 45 of 61

