 First-line Antimetabolites as Steroid-sparing Treatment (FAST) Uveitis Trial                 September 4, 2012
 Manual of Operation and Procedures


     coordinators should never rephrase or interpret questions for the patient.

     5.2. Refraction and visual acuity

          5.2.1. Refraction procedure
        Beginning Approximate Refraction

     The beginning approximate refraction should be obtained by performing retinoscopy or
     auto- refraction. One of these measurements is used as the beginning approximate
     refraction at each visit.

     Subjects who arrive for examination wearing contact lenses are asked to remove the
     lenses prior to refraction. The subject must wait for 30 minutes after removing the contact
     lenses before refraction can be performed.

     Refraction may be initially performed at distances different than four meters (i.e.
     using a phoropter in a common refraction lane). However, if this is done, the spherical
     power refinement step must be repeated with lenses in place after the subject has been
     positioned at four meters for visual acuity testing.

     The examiner will use Chart R (Precision Vision Chart Version 2305b) for manifest
     refraction. Each eye is refracted at four meters unless the visual acuity measured at this
     distance on chart R is worse than 20/200 (defined as missing 2 or more letters on the top
     line, the 20/200 or 6/60 line). This subject must then be moved to a distance of one meter
     from the study visual acuity chart, and refraction must be performed and recorded at this
     distance. Use of Visual Acuity Form R is optional but may be helpful in keeping track of
     patient’s acuity level.

        Manifest Refraction

     In general, instructions are to ‘push plus’ and to add minus diopter corrections only if there
     is a demonstrated increase in visual acuity, i.e., the patient is able to read more letters.
     The steps are as follows:
            • Seat the subject 4 meters in front of the refraction chart;
            • Place and adjust the trial frame on the subject’s face so that the lens cells are
                parallel to the anterior plane of the orbit;
            • Adjust the pupillary distance of the trial frame to make sure that the lenses
                position in front of the centers of the pupils;
            • Adjust the lens cells for the proper distance from the cornea;
            • Occlude the eye not being refracted;
            • Insert spherical lens correction into the compartment closest to the eye;
            • Place cylindrical lens correction in the compartment in the front of the frame;
            • Set cylindrical lens to appropriate axis setting

     Please refer to the table below to ensure that proper lenses are used for the appropriate
     visual acuity level:

Vision with                                                     Cylinder
                               Sphere                                                       Sphere Refinement
Best Correction                                         Use correct JCC as below
                        Power        Increment         Axis       Power         Increment   Power     Increment

                                                                                                                  32
 First-line Antimetabolites as Steroid-sparing Treatment (FAST) Uveitis Trial            September 4, 2012
 Manual of Operation and Procedures


6/3-6/24                +0.50           +0.50          0.50        0.25         +0.25   +0.37      +0.25
20/10-20/80             -0.37           -0.25                                   -0.25   -0.37      -0.25
(4 meters)              +0.50           +0.50                                           +0.37      +0.25
6/30-6/60               +1.00           +1.00          1.00        1.00         +1.00   +0.50      +0.50
20/100-20/200           -1.00           -1.00                                   -1.00   -0.50      -0.50
(4 meters)              +1.00           +1.00                                           +0.50      +0.50
<6/60                   +2.00           +2.00          1.00        1.00         +1.00   +1.00      +1.00
<20/200                 -2.00           -2.00                                   -1.00   -1.00      -1.00
(1 meter)               +2.00           +2.00                                           +1.00      +1.00

        Examples for each visual acuity level are detailed below.

For Patients with Visual Acuity of 6/3-6/24 (20/10-20/80):

          Determine Sphere Power
              •    Ask patient to identify the orientation of the tumbling “E”s on the smallest
                   possible line that he/she can see on the Chart R;
              •    With the subject looking at the smallest line legible on the visual acuity chart,
                   place a +0.50 spherical lens in front of the eye being tested. Ask the subject, “Is
                   vision better, worse, or the same?”
              •    If the subject responds that vision is made better or if there is no change,
                   replace the spherical lens with one that is +0.50 more plus;
              •    Continue to check with the +0.50 lens to see if the subject will accept more
                   plus by repeating the step above;
              •    When an additional +0.50 lens makes the subject’s vision worse, remove the +0.50
                   lens
              •    Then hold a -0.37 spherical lens over the eye;
              •    If this -0.37 lens improves the subject’s vision, even by one letter, replace the
                   spherical lens in the trial frame by one that is -0.25 more minus;
              •    If the -0.37 spherical lens does not allow the patient to read more letters or if it
                   makes the vision worse, move on to cylindrical testing;• Remember,          if   the
                   patient reports that the -0.37 lens makes the vision better but if s/he is unable to
                   read more letters, do not change spherical lens by -0.25.

          Determine and refine cylinder axis
        The following descriptions are for plus cylinders. Adjust accordingly for minus cylinder
        refraction.

              •    Ask the subject to look at a letter on a line of Chart R which is one line larger
                   than the smallest line he/she could read (one above threshold);
              •    If no cylinder is present in the beginning approximate refraction, place the
                   +/- 0.50 diopter cross-cylinder with the positive axis first at 90º and then at 180º,
                   asking if either position makes the letters clearer;
              •    If the patient prefers either one of these positions, place a +0.50 cylindrical lens
                   in the trial frame aligned with the preferred axis;
              •    If the patient did not prefer cylinder at axis 90° or 180°, position the cross
                   cylinder with the positive axis first at 45° then 135°;
              •    Ask if the patient prefers either of these positions;
              •    If so, place a +0.50 cylinder lens in the trial frame aligned with the preferred axis;
              •    If the subject prefers none of the four positions, no further cylinder testing is
                                                                                                          33
First-line Antimetabolites as Steroid-sparing Treatment (FAST) Uveitis Trial        September 4, 2012
Manual of Operation and Procedures


                  required;
             •    If cylinder is present in the beginning approximate refraction or if you have
                  added +0.50 cylinder power in the above step, position the +/- 0.50 diopter
                  cross-cylinder first with the positive axis 45º to the right of the cylinder axis
                  (position one), and secondly with the positive axis at 45º to the left of the cylinder
                  axis (position two). Ask the subject which position improves vision (position one or
                  position two?);
             •    If the subject responds that neither position is better and if this was the first test
                  of axis position, move the axis of the cylinder in the trial frame 15º to the right or
                  left and repeat;
             •    If the subject prefers one position to the other, rotate the cylinder toward the
                  preferred positive axis of the cross-cylinder in the step sizes recommended (see
                  Table below) and repeat. (If the subject states that one position of the cross-
                  cylinder is no better than the other position, proceed to refining cylinder power).
                               Table: Axis step sizes for refinement of cylinder.

                                    Cylinder Power           Axis Step Sizes
                                    < 1.00 D                         10°
                                    1.00 to < 2.00 D                 5°
                                    2.00 to < 3.00 D                 3°
                                    3.00 to < 5.00 D                 2°
                                    5.00 to < 8.00 D                 1°

         Refine cylinder power
             •  Ask the subject to look at the lowest line on the visual acuity chart which can be
                read;
             • Switch to +/- 0.25 diopter cross-cylinder;
             • Align the ± 0.25 diopter cross-cylinder first with the positive axis and then
                with the negative axis coincident with the cylinder axis. Ask the subject which is
                better;
             • If the subject prefers the negative axis coincident with the cylinder axis,
                decrease the power of the cylinder in the trial frame by +0.25 diopter;
              • If a subject indicates a change that would introduce negative cylinder power,
                remove all cylinder power and continue testing for positive cylinder power at an
                axis 90º away from the previous axis;
             • If the subject prefers the positive axis coincident with the cylinder axis,
                increase the power of the trial frame by +0.25 diopter and retest;
             • Beginning with cylinder powers of 1.00 diopter or more, for each 0.5 diopter
                change in cylinder power, adjust the sphere power by 0.25 diopter of the
                opposite sign; this is done to maintain the spherical equivalent.

         Spherical refinement
         End the refraction by performing the spherical refinement step.
            • With the subject looking at the smallest line legible on the visual acuity chart,
               place a +0.37 spherical lens in front of the eye being tested. Ask the subject, “Is
               vision better, worse, or the same?”
            • If the subject responds that vision is made better or if there is no change,
               replace the spherical lens with one that is +0.25 more plus;
            • Continue to check with the +0.37 lens to see if the subject will accept more
                                                                                                34
First-line Antimetabolites as Steroid-sparing Treatment (FAST) Uveitis Trial      September 4, 2012
Manual of Operation and Procedures


                  plus by repeating the step above;
             •    When an additional +0.37 lens makes the subject’s vision worse, remove the +0.37
                  lens;
             •    Then hold a -0.37 spherical lens over the eye;
             •    If this -0.37 lens improves the subject’s vision, even by one letter, replace the
                  spherical lens in the trial frame by one that is -0.25 more minus;
             •    Continue presenting the -0.37 lens to see if there is any further improvement in
                  vision;
             •    When an additional -0.37 lens does not improve vision;
             •    Present the +0.37 lens, again asking “if vision is better, worse or the same?”
             •    If patient responds that vision is better or the same, repeat spherical refinement
                  testing as detailed above;
             •    If patient responds that vision is worse, testing is complete.
             •    Remember to always to end the refraction by checking with plus lenses.
         For Patients with Visual Acuity of 6/30-6/60 (20/100-20/200):

         Determine Sphere Power
             •    Ask patient to identify the orientation of the tumbling “E”s on the smallest
                  possible line that he/she can see on the Chart R;
             •    With the subject looking at the smallest line legible on the visual acuity chart,
                  place a +1.00 spherical lens in front of the right eye. Ask the subject, “Is vision
                  better, worse, or no change?”
             •    If the subject responds that vision is made better or is the same, replace the
                  spherical lens with one that is +1.00 more plus;
             •    Continue to check with the +1.00 lens to see if the subject will accept more
                  plus by repeating the step above;
             •    When an additional +1.00 lens makes the subject’s vision worse, remove the +1.00
                  lens
             •    Then hold a -1.00 spherical lens over the eye;
             •    If this -1.00 lens improves the subject’s vision, even by one letter, replace the
                  spherical lens in the trial frame by one that is -1.00 more minus;
             •    If the -1.00 spherical lens does not allow the patient to read more letters or if it
                  makes the vision worse, move on to cylindrical testing;
             •    Remember, if the patient reports that the -1.00 lens makes the vision better but if
                  s/he is unable to read more letters, do not change spherical lens by -1.00.
             •    NOTE: if visual acuity improves significantly during manifest refraction, the
                  examiner may need to change to trial lenses that are specified for the new level
                  of acuity for the remainder of the refraction. Please refer to the Trial Lens Guide
                  above.

         Determine and refine cylinder axis
         The following descriptions are for plus cylinders. Adjust accordingly for minus cylinder
         refraction.
             • Ask the subject to look at a letter on a line of Chart R which is one line larger
                 than the smallest line he/she could read (one above threshold);
             • If no cylinder is present in the beginning approximate refraction, place the
                 +/- 1.00 diopter cross-cylinder with the positive axis first at 90º and then at 180º,
                 asking if either position makes the letters clearer;
             • If the patient prefers either of these positions, place a +1.00 cylindrical lens in
                                                                                                    35
First-line Antimetabolites as Steroid-sparing Treatment (FAST) Uveitis Trial        September 4, 2012
Manual of Operation and Procedures


                the trial frame at the preferred axis;
             •  If the patient did not prefer cylinder at axis 90° or 180°, position the cross
                cylinder with the positive axis first at 45° then 135°;
             • Ask if the patient prefers either of these positions;
             • If so, place a +1.00 cylinder lens in the trial frame at the preferred axis;
             • If the subject prefers none of the four positions, no further cylinder testing is
             required;
             • If cylinder is present in the beginning approximate refraction or if you have
                added +1.00 cylinder power in the above step, position the +/- 1.00 diopter
                cross-cylinder first with the positive axis 45º to the right of the cylinder axis
                (position one), and secondly with the positive axis at 45º to the left of the cylinder
                axis (position two). Ask the subject which position improves the vision (position one
                or position two?);
             • If the subject responds that neither position is better and if this was the first test
                of axis position, move the axis of the cylinder in the trial frame 15º to the right or
                left and repeat;
             • If the subject prefers one position to the other, rotate the cylinder toward the
                preferred positive axis of the cross-cylinder in the step sizes recommended (see
                Table below) and repeat. (If the subject states that one position of the cross-
                cylinder is no better than the other position, proceed to refining cylinder power).

                                Table: Axis step sizes for refinement of cylinder

                                    Cylinder Power           Axis Step Sizes
                                    < 1.00 D                         10°
                                    1.00 to < 2.00 D                 5°
                                    2.00 to < 3.00 D                 3°
                                    3.00 to < 5.00 D                 2°
                                    5.00 to < 8.00 D                 1°

         Refine cylinder power
             •    Ask the subject to look at the lowest line on the visual acuity chart which can be
                  read;
             •    Align the ± 1.00 diopter cross-cylinder first with the positive axis and then
                  with the negative axis coincident with the cylinder axis. Ask the subject which is
                  better;
             •    If the subject prefers the negative axis coincident with the cylinder axis,
                  decrease the power of the cylinder in the trial frame by +1.00 diopter;
             •    If a subject indicates a change that would introduce negative cylinder power,
                  remove all cylinder power and continue testing for positive cylinder power at an
                  axis 90º away from the previous axis;
             •    If the subject prefers the positive axis coincident with the cylinder axis,
                  increase the power of the trial frame by +1.00 diopter and retest;
             •    Beginning with cylinders of 1.00 diopter or more, for each 0.5 diopter change in
                  cylinder power, adjust the sphere by 0.25 diopter of the opposite sign; this is
                  done to maintain the spherical equivalent.

         Spherical refinement
         End the refraction by performing the spherical refinement step.
                                                                                                        36
First-line Antimetabolites as Steroid-sparing Treatment (FAST) Uveitis Trial       September 4, 2012
Manual of Operation and Procedures


              • With the subject looking at the smallest line legible on the visual acuity chart,
                place a +0.50 spherical lens in front of the eye being tested. Ask the subject, “Is
                vision better, worse, or the same?”
             • If the subject responds that vision is made better or if there is no change,
                replace the spherical lens with one that is +0.50 more plus;
             • Continue to check with the +0.50 lens to see if the subject will accept more
                plus by repeating the step above;
             • When an additional +0.50 lens makes the subject’s vision worse, remove the +0.50
                lens
             • Then hold a -0.50 spherical lens over the eye;
             • If this -0.50 lens improves the subject’s vision, even by one letter, replace the
                spherical lens in the trial frame by one that is -0.50 more minus;
             • Continue presenting the -0.50 lens to see if there is further improvement in vision;
             • When an additional -0.50 lens does not improve vision;
             • Show the patient the +0.50 lens, again asking “if vision is better, worse or the
                same?”
             • If patient responds that vision is better or the same, repeat spherical refinement
                testing as detailed above;
             • If patient responds that vision is worse, refraction testing is complete.
             • Remember to always to end the refraction by checking with plus power.

         For Patients with Visual Acuity < 6/60 (<20/200):

         Determine Sphere Power
         NOTE: If refraction cannot be performed at 4 meters, defined as missing 2 or more
         letters on the largest line, then the subject should be moved to 1 meter and the above
         refraction sequence followed. At 1 meter, a + 0.75 spherical lens is added to the
         beginning approximate refraction to adjust for the accommodative difference between 4
         and 1 meter.
              • Ask patient to identify the orientation of the tumbling “E”s on the smallest
                 possible line that he/she can see on the Chart R;
              • With the subject looking at the smallest line legible on the visual acuity chart,
                 place a +2.00 spherical lens in front of the right eye. Ask the subject, “Is it better,
                 worse, or no change?”
              • If the subject responds that vision is made better or is the same, replace the
                 spherical lens with one that is +2.00 more plus;
              • Continue to check with the +2.00 lens to see if the subject will accept more
                 plus by repeating the step above;
              • When an additional +2.00 lens makes the subject’s vision worse, remove the +2.00
                 lens
              • Then hold a -2.00 spherical lens over the eye;
              • If this -2.00 lens improves the subject’s vision, even by one letter, replace the
                 spherical lens in the trial frame by one that is -2.00 more minus;
              • If the -2.00 spherical lens does not allow the patient to read more letters or if it
                 makes the vision worse, move on to cylindrical testing;
              • Remember, if the patient reports that the -2.00 lens makes the vision better but if
                 s/he is unable to read more letters, do not change spherical lens by -2.00.
              • NOTE: if visual acuity improves significantly during manifest refraction, the
                 examiner may need to change to trial lenses that are specified for the new level
                 of acuity for the remainder of the refraction. Please refer to the Trial Lens Guide
                                                                                                       37
First-line Antimetabolites as Steroid-sparing Treatment (FAST) Uveitis Trial        September 4, 2012
Manual of Operation and Procedures


                  above.

         Determine and refine cylinder axis
         The following descriptions are for plus cylinders. Adjust accordingly for minus cylinder
         refraction.
             • Ask the subject to look at a letter on a line of Chart R which is one line larger
                 than the smallest line he/she could read (one above threshold);
             • If no cylinder is present in the beginning approximate refraction, place the
                 +/- 1.00 diopter cross-cylinder with the positive axis first at 90º and then at 180º,
                 asking if either position makes the letters clearer;
             • If the patient prefers either of these positions, place a +1.00 cylindrical lens in
                 the trial frame at the preferred axis;
             • If the patient did not prefer cylinder at axis 90° or 180°, position the cross
                 cylinder with the positive axis first at 45° then 135°;
             • Ask if the patient prefers either of these positions;
             • If so, place a +1.00 cylinder lens in the trial frame at the preferred axis;
             • If the subject prefers none of the four positions, no further cylinder testing is
                 required.
             • If cylinder is present in the beginning approximate refraction or if you have
                 added +1.00 cylinder power in the above step, position the +/- 1.00 diopter
                 cross-cylinder first with the positive axis 45º to the right of the cylinder axis
                 (position one), and secondly with the positive axis at 45º to the left of the cylinder
                 axis (position two). Ask the subject which position improves the vision (position one
                 or position two?);
             • If the subject responds that neither position is better and if this was the first test
                 of axis position, move the axis of the cylinder in the trial frame 15º to the right or
                 left and repeat;
             • If the subject prefers one position to the other, rotate the cylinder toward the
                 preferred positive axis of the cross-cylinder in the step sizes recommended (see
                 table below) and repeat. (If the subject states that one position of the cross-
                 cylinder is no better than the other position, proceed to refining cylinder power).

                                Table: Axis step sizes for refinement of cylinder

                                    Cylinder Power           Axis Step Sizes
                                    < 1.00 D                         10°
                                    1.00 to < 2.00 D                 5°
                                    2.00 to < 3.00 D                 3°
                                    3.00 to < 5.00 D                 2°
                                    5.00 to < 8.00 D                 1°

         Refine cylinder power
             • Ask the subject to look at the lowest line on the visual acuity chart which can be
             read;
             • Align the ± 1.00 diopter cross-cylinder first with the positive axis and then
                with the negative axis coincident with the cylinder axis. Ask the subject which is
                better;
             • If the subject prefers the negative axis coincident with the cylinder axis,
                decrease the power of the cylinder in the trial frame by 1.00 diopter;

                                                                                                        38
First-line Antimetabolites as Steroid-sparing Treatment (FAST) Uveitis Trial   September 4, 2012
Manual of Operation and Procedures


             •    If a subject indicates a change that would introduce negative cylinder power,
                  remove all cylinder power and continue testing for positive cylinder power at an
                  axis 90º away from the previous axis;
             •    If the subject prefers the positive axis coincident with the cylinder axis,
                  increase the power of the trial frame by +1.00 diopter and retest;
             •    Beginning with cylinders of 1.00 diopter or more, for each 0.5 diopter change in
                  cylinder power, adjust the sphere by 0.25 diopter of the opposite sign, this is
                  done to maintain the spherical equivalent.

         Spherical refinement
         End the refraction by performing the spherical refinement
         step.
             • With the subject looking at the smallest line legible on the visual acuity chart,
               place a +1.00 spherical lens in front of the eye being tested. Ask the subject, “Is
               vision better, worse, or the same?”
             • If the subject responds that vision is made better or if there is no change,
               replace the spherical lens with one that is +1.00 more plus;
             • Continue to check with the +1.00 lens to see if the subject will accept more
               plus by repeating the step above;
             • When an additional +1.00 lens makes the subject’s vision worse, remove the +1.00
               lens
             • Then hold a -1.00 spherical lens over the eye;
             • If this -1.00 lens improves the subject’s vision, even by one letter, replace the
               spherical lens in the trial frame by one that is -1.00 more minus;
             • Continue presenting the -1.00 lens to see if there is further improvement in vision;
             • When an additional -1.00 lens does not improve vision;
             • Present the +1.00 lens, again asking “if vision is better, worse or the same?”
             • If patient responds that vision is better or the same, repeat spherical refinement
               testing as detailed above;
             • If patient responds that vision is worse, testing is complete.
             • Remember to always to end the refraction by checking with plus power.

         Record the lens correction obtained during manifest refraction for the right eye on the
         appropriate examination forms in the section for visual acuity measurements (Section
         A.5). Then proceed to refraction of the left eye, following steps as outlined above.

    5.2.2. Visual acuity procedure

         Visual acuity measurement is necessary for the secondary outcome in this trial.
         Therefore, we have created a standardized method that aims to minimize any bias from
         either the refractionist or the patient. This has been adapted from the Visual Acuity
         protocols from the Age Related Eye Disease Study (AREDS 1999)32, and the Aravind
         Eye Hospital’s Practical Guide to Refraction33 and is similar to the method we are
         currently using at Aravind Eye Hospital and Proctor/UCSF for the NEI funded Steroids
         for Corneal Ulcers Trial and the Mycotic Ulcer Treatment Trial.

         Visual Acuity Charts
         The following equipment is used: a set of three charts, which are modified Bailey-Lovie
         charts, Charts 1, 2 and R (Precision Vision Chart 2305, 2305a and 2305b,
         respectively). Each chart consists of 14 lines of high-contrast “tumbling E’s”. There is

                                                                                                   39
First-line Antimetabolites as Steroid-sparing Treatment (FAST) Uveitis Trial     September 4, 2012
Manual of Operation and Procedures


         a geometric progression of letter size (and, thus, an arithmetic progression of the
         logarithm of minimum angle of resolution) from line to line.

         Chart 1 is for measuring aided visual acuity of the right eye and Chart 2 is to be used for
         measuring aided visual acuity of the left eye at all visits. Chart R will be used for
         obtaining all manifest subjective refractions.

         Visual Acuity Boxes
         The dimensions of the light box are 24 and 3/4 inches (62.9 cm) by 25 and 3/4 inches
         (65.4 cm) by 7 inches (17.8 cm). The box can be mounted on a wall or on a cylindrical
         stand. The stand is mounted on a five-pronged wheelbase, with each prong about 14
         inches (35.6 cm) long; two of the five wheels are lockable. When the box is mounted
         on the stand, its height can be varied. The light box should be mounted at a height
         such that the top of the third row of letters (0.8 logMAR, 45 letters, 20/125 Snellen) is
         49 +/- 2 inches (124.5 +/-5.1 cm) from the floor. The rear of the box provides storage
         space for the two charts not being used.

         Illumination
         The overhead room lights should be turned off during the visual acuity test. The
         box itself provides sufficient illumination for the examiner to record the test results.
         Additional light can have an adverse effect such as glare. With the box light off, not
         more than 15 foot-candles of light should fall on the center of the chart. The visual
         acuity light box is equipped with two 20- watt fluorescent tubes. Because the
         illumination of fluorescent tubes diminishes by 5 percent during the first 100 hours and
         by another 5 percent during the next 2,000 hours, new tubes should be kept "on" for
         about 4 days (approximately 96 hours, does not have to be continuous) before use. All
         tubes should be replaced once a year.

         Each tube is partially covered by a 14-inch (35.6 cm) fenestrated sleeve, open in the
         back, which serves as a baffle to reduce illumination. Each sleeve should be centered
         on the tube such that an equal length of tube (about 4 and 3/16 inches or 10.6 cm) is left
         uncovered to the right and left of the sleeve.

         4- and 1-Meter Visual Acuity Lanes
         A distance of 4 meters (13 feet and 1.5 inches, or 157.5 inches) is required between the
         subject's eyes and the visual acuity chart for the 4-meter test, and a distance of 1 meter
         (39 and 3/8 inches) is required for the 1-meter test. The room for visual acuity testing
         must have, in addition to the 4- meter lane, space for the visual acuity box (and possibly a
         stand) and space for the subject.
             • Wall-mounted box: In addition to the 4-meter lane, 7 inches (17.8 cm) must be
                allowed for the depth of the box plus space for the subject to sit or stand.
             • Stand-mounted box: In addition to the 4-meter lane, 13 inches (33 cm) must be
                 allowed for two of the stand's casters to touch the rear wall (or a line marked on
                 the floor when there is no wall) plus space for the subject to sit or stand.

         Marking the Distance

         4 Meters
              •   If the chair and visual acuity box are permanently affixed, distance
                                                                                                     40
First-line Antimetabolites as Steroid-sparing Treatment (FAST) Uveitis Trial         September 4, 2012
Manual of Operation and Procedures


                  measurements need to be made only once and no floor marks are needed to
                  ensure the correct distance.
              •   If the box is mounted on the wall but the subject's chair is not permanently affixed,
                  the 4- meter distance of the subject's eye from the chart must be marked clearly
                  and permanently.
              •   If the box is mounted on a movable stand, the 4-meter distance must be
                  marked clearly and permanently. The location and orientation of the box must be
                  rechecked each time a new chart is put in place or the box is touched. When the
                  stand touches the rear wall of the room, two of the five casters should touch the
                  wall.

         1 Meter
             •    The 1-meter distance is measured from the eye of the subject, who is seated
                  comfortably in a chair with his or her back firmly placed against the chair's back,
                  to the center of the second (for testing the left eye) or fourth letter (for testing the
                  right eye) of the third line of the chart. A stick, one meter long, should be used
                  to confirm the distance for each subject.

         Visual Acuity Procedure
             •    Visual acuity will be measured at each study visit.
             •    Visual acuity should be measured for each eye AFTER refraction. Visual acuity
                  should NOT be recorded during the refraction procedure.
             •    It is very important that the examiner is not aware of the patient’s clinical
                  records, in order to minimize bias. Therefore, the visual acuity examiner will not
                  have access to the patient’s previous clinical examination or treatment results.
             •    Visual acuity is tested separately for each eye (one eye at a time). The patient’s
                  untested eye will be completely covered with a patch, to block out all light from
                  entering this eye. The examiner must constantly ensure that this eye remains
                  occluded at all times.
             •    The patient is instructed to read each letter on the chart starting with the largest
                  line, at the 4-meter distance.
             •    The patient will show the orientation of the tumbling “E” with the hand that they
                  are not using to occlude the untested eye. If the patient cannot identify the
                  orientation of a letter, they are encouraged to guess. Only one response is
                  allowed per letter.
             •    The examiner must ensure that the patient does not squint (creating a pin-hole
                  effect) or lean forward (reducing the distance to the chart).
             •    Once a patient has given a response for a letter and has moved on to provide a
                  response for the next letter, any corrections of previous response will not be
                  accepted.
             •    However, if the patient has given a response for a letter and has not yet
                  moved on to provide a response for the next letter, a correction of the previous
                  response is accepted.
             •    If the subject gives two possible responses for a letter, tell the patient to commit
                  to one answer. The examiner CANNOT, at anytime, give the patient any
                  indication as to whether a response is correct or incorrect.
             •    If 3 or fewer letters are identified correctly on any row from Row 3 or below,
                  STOP testing on that row.
             •    In the case that the patient reads less than 10 letters at 4 meters, move the
                  patient or the chart so that there is a distance between the two of 1 meter.
                                                                                                    41
First-line Antimetabolites as Steroid-sparing Treatment (FAST) Uveitis Trial      September 4, 2012
Manual of Operation and Procedures


             •    Visual acuity will then be retested at this 1 meter distance.
             •    Only the first 6 rows of letters need to be read at 1 meter.
             •    If less than 10 letters are read at 1 meter, then the examiner must proceed to
                  Low Vision Testing, starting with Count Fingers testing. If the patient does not
                  adequately Count Fingers (see below), proceed to Hand Motion. If the patient
                  does not adequately recognize Hand Motion (see below), then proceed to Light
                  Perception.

         Testing of Count Fingers Vision
         In testing for count fingers vision, the examiner’s hand presenting 1, 2, or 5 fingers is held
         steady at a distance of 1 meter directly in front of the eye being examined. The fellow
         eye is completely occluded with a patch. Refractive correction should not be used.
         A light should be shown directly on the hand from behind the subject and room
         lights should be turned on. The examiner’s fingers should be presented in random
         order and repeated 5 times. Eccentric viewing should be encouraged. If the subject
         correctly identifies three of the five presentations, then count fingers visions is noted. If
         not, then the subject must be tested for hand motion vision.

         Testing of Hand Motion Vision
         The examiner’s hand with all fingers spread out should be extended ½ meter directly in
         front of the eye being examined. The fellow eye should be occluded with a patch.
         Refractive correction should not be used. A light should be shone directly on the hand
         from behind the subject and room lights should be turned on. The examiner’s hand
         should be moved in an up-and-down direction (vertically) or in a side-to-side direction
         (horizontally) at a constant speed of approximately one back and forth presentation per
         second. The subject is instructed that the examiner’s hand will be presented and
         they will have to respond to the question: “What am I doing with my hand?” This
         should be repeated five times. Four out of five correct responses indicate that hand
         motions visions is present. If the subject does not correctly identify four out of five, then
         you must test for light perception.

         Testing for Light Perception
         The indirect ophthalmoscope is used as the light source for testing light perception.
         Room lights should be off.       The opposite eye must be completely patched. No
         correction should be used. From a distance of ½ meter with the light source turned up
         to maximum intensity, the light from the indirect ophthalmoscope is directed into the
         subject’s eye four times. The subject is asked to respond when the light is “on”. Light
         Perception is recorded if the examiner is convinced the subject sees the light.
         Otherwise, the vision should be recorded as “No Light Perception”.

         Scoring Best Corrected Visual Acuity
         On the Visual Acuity Forms, the examiner will circle all letters read correctly. Letters
         read incorrectly or not read at all will be left unmarked. At the end of each row of
         letters, the examiner will write down the total number of letters read correctly on the line
         provided. If visual acuity was not tested at 1 meter, the examiner will indicate this on the
         form.
         After each measurement of visual acuity, the biostatistician will calculate the score for
         the visit. The visual acuity score is defined as follows:
             • If 10 or more letters of the first line are read correctly at 4 meters, the 4 meter
                                                                                                 42
First-line Antimetabolites as Steroid-sparing Treatment (FAST) Uveitis Trial       September 4, 2012
Manual of Operation and Procedures


                  visual acuity score is equal to the number of letters read correctly at 4 meters plus
                  30.
             •    If 3 or fewer letters of the largest line are read correctly at 4 meters, the visual
                  acuity score is equal to the number of letters read correctly at 1 meter.
             •    If 3 or fewer letters are read at 1 meter, then low vision testing must be
                  performed. (This result, count fingers, hand motion, light perception, or no light
                  perception, will be used for the analysis by converting into a logMAR score
                  according to Visual Acuity Calculation Table).

         The highest attainable 4-meter visual acuity score is 100.


         The Snellen equivalent, defined as the Snellen ratio corresponding to the most difficult
         line for which the subject read at least 4 of 5 letters correctly, will also be entered by the
         examiner on the 4-meter Visual Acuity Form (Section A.5).
         The data entry staff will enter the number correct on each row at 4 meters, and if
         applicable, 1 meter and low vision testing results (They will not enter which letters the
         examiner circled, i.e., which letters the patient identified correctly.). The biostatistician
         will calculate the visual acuity score and double check the data entered by the examiner
         and data entry staff by reviewing the original forms.

         5.2.3.    Visual acuity training and certification

         The goal of the certification process is to standardize methodology for refraction and
         visual acuity measurement. All visual function examinations must be performed by
         study-certified technicians. The principal investigator at each site is responsible for
         ensuring that the appropriate personnel are identified, trained and certified. A qualified
         visual function examiner (SL) from the Clinical Coordinating Center (Proctor Foundation)
         will certify the rooms and technicians at each site.

         Technicians are expected to perform the refraction and visual acuity tests on at least
         one and possibly more non-study subjects according to protocol requirements. The
         examiner will determine whether or not the candidate executes the study protocol
         accurately for each procedure. A checklist (Visual Acuity/Refraction Certification Form,
         Section B.1) containing required procedures will be used to facilitate this process.

         Room certification will be performed and recorded (Room Certification Form, section
         B.2) to ensure that all study rooms meet illumination, equipment, and distance
         requirements. Logs should be kept to document dates of light box bulb replacement.

         Certification is valid for a period 18 months (± 2 months) from the date of
         certification. The process should begin as soon as possible, as technicians must be
         certified before the first study subject is seen. A minimum of two certified technicians
         are required at each site.

         The visual acuity measuring schedule may be found on the Study Forms Completion
         Schedule.

    5.3. Ophthalmic procedures

         5.3.1. Grading inflammation
                                                                                                       43
First-line Antimetabolites as Steroid-sparing Treatment (FAST) Uveitis Trial                 September 4, 2012
Manual of Operation and Procedures



    The study ophthalmologist at each site will be required to perform an eye examination at
    each study visit. This examination should be similar to that performed in the routine care of
    uveitis patients. Several components will be assessed in detail per study protocol. The
    grading schemes to be used for these assessments are adapted from the Standardization of
    Uveitis Nomenclature (SUN) Working Group.2
    Anterior Chamber Cells
    SUN Working Group Grading Scheme for Anterior Chamber Cells
                   Grade                              Cells in Field*
                      0                                     <1
                    0.5+                                    1-5
                     1+                                    6-15
                     2+                                   16-25
                     3+                                   26-50
                     4+                                    >50
  *Field size is a 1mm by 1mm slit lamp beam. Grading should be conducted in a completely dark room.

    Anterior Chamber Flare
    Anterior Chamber Flare will be assessed by slit lamp exam but will not be part of our study
    criteria for controlled inflammation.

    SUN Working Group Grading Scheme for Anterior Chamber Flare
                   Grade                                   Description
                     0                                        None
                    1+                                        Faint
                    2+                        Moderate (iris and lens details clear)
                    3+                         Marked (iris and lens details hazy)
                    4+                          Intense (fibrin or plastic aqueous)
   *Adapted from: Hogan MJ, Kimura SJ, Thygeson P. Signs and symptoms of uveitis: I. Anterior
    Uveitis. AM J Ophthal 1964;47:155-170; Grading should be conducted in a completely dark room

    Vitreous Cells
    There is currently no accepted standard for grading vitreous cells, which will not be part of
    our study criteria for controlled inflammation. However, we will collect this information using
    the grading scheme below, which is adapted from the MUST trial:

                        Grade                                              Cells in Field*
                           0                                                 No cells
                         0.5+                                               0 to 5 cells
                          1+                                                6-10 cells
                          2+                                                11-20 cells
                          3+                                                21-50 cells
                          4+                                                    >50
  *Field size is a 1mm by 0.5mm beam; Grading should be conducted in a completely dark room; These
  cells are graded by slit lamp exam after dilation.

    Vitreous Haze
    Vitreous haze will be assessed using an indirect ophthalmoscope set at mid-power and a
    20D lens. Fundus examination will be done with the last view being the area around the
                                                                                                                 44
First-line Antimetabolites as Steroid-sparing Treatment (FAST) Uveitis Trial                September 4, 2012
Manual of Operation and Procedures


    optic disc. The examiner should then compare this view to the photograph (Figure 1) and
    determine the level of vitreous haze. The National Eye Institute System for grading
    vitreous haze will be used for all primary and secondary outcome measures. Additionally,
    vitreous haze will be assessed on the 9-point grading scale recently published by Davis et
    al. An exploratory analysis will correlate measurements from the NEI and Davis scales.
    Clinical measurements of vitreous haze will also be compared to objective assessments
    done by grading of fundus photos.
                        Figure 1: National Eye Institute system for grading vitreous haze

                           Grade                                                Description
                              0                                                    Clear
                            0.5+                                   Slight blurring of optic disc margin
                                                               Normal striations and reflex of nerve fiber
                                                                       layer cannot be visualized
                             1+                              Opacities without obscuration of retinal details
                             2+                                Few opacities resulting in mild blurring of
                                                               details of optic nerve and retinal vessels
                             3+                                  Optic nerve head and retinal vessels
                                                                 significantly blurred but still visible
                             4+                               Dense opacity obscuring optic nerve head
   *Grading should be conducted in a completely dark room.




    From Nussenblatt RB, Palestine AG, Chan CC, Roberge F. Standardization of vitreal inflammatory activity in
    intermediate and poseterior uveitis. Ophthalmology 1985; 92: 467-471.




                                                                                                                 45
First-line Antimetabolites as Steroid-sparing Treatment (FAST) Uveitis Trial                  September 4, 2012
Manual of Operation and Procedures




                        Figure 2: Davis et al 9-point system for grading vitreous haze




    From Davis JL, Madow B, Cornett J, et al. Scale for photographic grading of vitreous haze in uveitis. Am J
    Ophthalmol;150:637-641 e1.

    Slit lamp examination and dilated funduscopic exam are important parts of our study:
    assessments of anterior chamber cells and vitreous haze will determine the patient’s course
    of treatment. All of our study physicians are fellowship-trained uveitis specialists who have
    participated in prior uveitis studies.

         5.3.2. Inter-observer variation of ocular inflammation

    At the 6th month study visit, the 12th month study visit, or at treatment failure (whichever is
    earlier), inter-observer agreement on slit lamp observations and funduscopic exam will be
    assessed. Coordinators will arrange for two certified study physicians to measure anterior
    chamber cells, anterior chamber flare, vitreous cells, and vitreous haze at the Month 6 and
    12 visit or at declaration of treatment failure. The inter- observer variation will be reported.
    The primary study ophthalmologist’s measurements will be used for primary analysis

    5.4. Optical coherence tomography

    We will be using spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT) in this study to
    monitor the effects of treatment by measuring macular thickness and changes in macular
    thickness. We will be utilizing the Heidelberg Spectralis SD-OCT unit and the Zeiss Cirrus
    SD-OCT unit for all study assessments. Each site must choose either Heidelberg Spectralis
    or Zeiss Cirrus at the time of study initiation and continue to use that same scanner for all
    patients the duration of the study.

         5.4.1. Required patient assessments—Heidelberg Spectralis

         For our study, one of each of the following scans is required for each eye:

              •   20° x 20° High Speed Volume scan centered on the macula

                                                                                                                  46
First-line Antimetabolites as Steroid-sparing Treatment (FAST) Uveitis Trial        September 4, 2012
Manual of Operation and Procedures


              •   7 Line Preset scan centered on the macula


         5.4.2. Scan procedures—Heidelberg Spectralis
         Creating Patient Files
         For Baseline Scans:
         To ensure patient confidentiality, patient ID only will be used. Patient name and other
         identifying information will not be used on the scans. Therefore, when setting up the
         patient file, please follow the instructions below:
             • Click on the red forward facing icon in the toolbar
             • In the Last Name field, enter study name: FAST
             • In the First Name field, enter patient’s unique study ID number
             • For Date of Birth, always use 1/1/2000
             • Click proper field in gender section
             • In Patient ID field enter patient’s unique study ID number, example: “1-APR-211”
                 For Follow-up Scans:
             • Click on the side facing icon in the toolbar
             • Ensure that a scan from the baseline visit has been set as a reference scan:
                  •      Identify the scan from the baseline visit that you would like to set as reference

                  •      Right click on the scan
                  •      Select “Progression”
                  •      Select “Set Reference”
                  •      This setting will be confirmed by a red icon appearing on the bottom left
                         corner of the selected scan

         Procedures for Obtaining Scans
         General Guidelines
            • Scans may be obtained if the patient’s pupils are not dilated. However, pupil
               dilation prior to obtaining scans is encouraged
            • Clean chin rest and forehead rests
            • Adjust table and chin rest height to ensure patient comfort
            • Make sure that patient is aligned straight; slight face turns to the left or
               right may decrease scan quality

             Click on the Preset “Dense” scan icon on the screen to obtain the 20° x 20° volume
             scan. Please make sure that the scan will have the following parameters:
                     o 20° x 20°
                     o 49 sections
                     o 16 frames (ART)

             •    Pull the camera all the way back
             •    Move the instrument toward the patient slowly, taking care not to alarm patient
                  and to not touch the patient’s eyes or eyelashes with the instrument
             •    Ask patient to fixate on the blue light on the inside of the machine
             •    Remind patient not to follow the movement of the red scan lines
             •    If patient is having trouble focusing on fixation light, you may need to help the
                  patient direct his/her gaze by using external fixation targets
             •    Focus in on the circular black and white retinal reflex
             •    Move the camera forward so that the fundus image comes into view and fills the
                                                                                                        47
First-line Antimetabolites as Steroid-sparing Treatment (FAST) Uveitis Trial     September 4, 2012
Manual of Operation and Procedures


                  screen
             •    Use the focusing knob to obtain maximum brightness and clarity of the image
             •    Ensure that the image is maintained in the upper third of the screen
             •    Click “Acquire”
             •    Repeat for next eye

             Click on the “7 Line” Preset Scan icon
             This scan will have the following parameters:
                     o 30° x 5°
                     o 7 sections
                     o 25 frames (ART)

             •    Focus image as described above
             •    Click “Acquire”
             •    Repeat for next eye
             •    Please review scans for completeness and quality. A good quality scan
                  should have a score of at least 20. Please repeat any scans that are not
                  complete or of poor quality.

         5.4.3. Obtaining retinal thickness data—Heidelberg Spectralis

             •    After closing the acquisition window, double click on the volume scan.
             •    Select “Thickness Map” tab
             •    Record central subfield thickness on data sheet
             •    Print out copy of scan for patient file

         Be sure to complete analysis of data and record information on data collection form as
         soon as possible. This will ensure that the treating physician will be able to use the
         SD-OCT results in real time to determine if macular edema is present or not.


         5.4.4. Saving/Exporting data—Heidelberg Spectralis
       Saving Data

             •    All scans should be saved and archived at each study site on the Heidleberg SD-
                  OCTunit.
             •    After obtaining scans, right click on each scan icon and choose “Export as E2E”
             •    Save the “E2E” data onto a removable hard drive separate from the main unit: this
                  raw data may be requested from each site at a later date.

       Exporting Data
           • One image of the central macula from each 20º x 20º scan should be emailed to the
               Proctor Foundation for review.
           • With volume scan displayed, and with the central macular scan highlighted, click
               on “Image” tab on toolbar
           • Select “Export as Picture”
           • Export and save image on a desktop folder or onto a USB drive
           • Save images as “jpg” files
           • Also create a PDF file of the “Thickness Map” described above in section 5.4.3
           • Place these images of both eyes in a file
                                                                                                     48
First-line Antimetabolites as Steroid-sparing Treatment (FAST) Uveitis Trial    September 4, 2012
Manual of Operation and Procedures


             •    Label the file with patient’s unique study ID, visit number, and date of visit,
                  example: “1-APR-211-BL-10AUG2012”
             •    Email images for each patient to Proctor Foundation:
             •    Repeat above steps for scan number 4 of the 7 Line Preset Scan
             •    If images cannot be obtained or are of poor quality, please provide comments in
                  email

         5.4.5. Required patient assessments—Zeiss Cirrus
               For our study, one of each of the following scans is required for each eye:
                 • Macular Cube Scan
                 • 5 Line Raster scan centered on the macula

         5.4.6. Scan procedures—Zeiss Cirrus
         Creating Patient Files
         To ensure patient confidentiality, patient ID only will be used. Patient name and other
         identifying information will not be used on the scans. Therefore, when setting up the
         patient file, please follow the instructions below:
             • In the Last Name field, enter study name: FAST
             • In the First Name field, enter patient’s unique study number
             • For Date of Birth, always use 1/1/2000
             • Click proper field in gender section
             • In Patient ID field enter patient’s unique study ID number, example: “1-APR-211”

         Procedures for Obtaining Scans
         General Guidelines
            • Scans may be obtained if the patient’s pupils are not dilated. However, pupil
               dilation prior to obtaining scans is encouraged
            • Clean chin rest and forehead rests
            • Adjust table and chin rest height to ensure patient comfort
            • Make sure that patient is aligned straight; slight face turns to the left or
               right may decrease scan quality
            • Ensure that the camera is pulled all the way back
            • Move the instrument toward the patient slowly, taking care not to alarm patient
               and to not touch the patient’s eyes or eyelashes with the instrument

             Select “Scan Macular Cube 512x218” default in the upper panel of the Acquire
             screen
             • In the Iris Viewport, center the scan beam through the pupil by clicking on the pupil
                 center or using the X-Y controls
             • Focus the iris image using the chinrest arrows
             • Center the fundus image in the Fundus Viewport
             • Click on “Auto Focus”
             • Use small arrows to focus manually
             • Click “Optimize”
             • Ask patient to blink right before image capture
             • Click “Capture”
             • Review scan; if acceptable, click “Save”
             • If not acceptable, click “Try Again”

             Repeat above steps to acquire “5 Line Raster” default Scan
                                                                                                    49
First-line Antimetabolites as Steroid-sparing Treatment (FAST) Uveitis Trial        September 4, 2012
Manual of Operation and Procedures



             •    If patient is having trouble focusing on fixation light, you may need to help the
                  patient direct his/her gaze by using external fixation targets
             •    Ensure that the scan image is maintained in the upper half of the screen
             •    Please review scans for completeness and quality. Signal strength should be
                  at least 5 or higher. Please repeat any scans that are not complete or of poor
                  quality.

         5.4.7. Obtaining retinal thickness data—Zeiss Cirrus

             •    Obtain Macular Thickness analysis
             •    Obtain 5 Line Raster analysis
             •    Record central subfield thickness on data sheet

         Be sure to complete analysis of data and record information on data collection form as
         soon as possible. This will ensure that the treating physician will be able to use the
         SD-OCT results in real time to determine if macular edema is present or not.


         5.4.8. Saving/Exporting data—Zeiss Cirrus

             •    All scans should be saved and archived at each study site on the Zeiss Cirrus SD-
                  OCT unit. This raw data should also be saved onto a separate removable hard
                  drive so that it is available for export and review at a later date.
             •    The following images should be emailed to the Proctor Foundation for review.
                      One image/screen shot of macular cube printout for each eye
                      One image/screen shot of 5 line raster printout for each eye
                      Images can be sent as “jpg”, “tiff” or “pdf” files
                      Images should be sent to:
                      If images cannot be obtained or are of poor quality, please provide
                        comments in email

         5.4.9. OCT operator qualifications

    Prior to the study start date, at least 2 personnel who will be responsible for obtaining SD-
    OCT scans at each site should be identified. These individuals should have prior
    experience with operation of either the Heidelberg SD-OCT or Zeiss Cirrus SD-OCT
    instrument for routine clinic purposes. Dr. Salena Lee will go to each site before that start of
    the trial to meet with these technicians to review all required OCT procedures specified in
    our protocol. OCT operators must be able to demonstrate ability to obtain scans as well as
    knowledge of the study protocol.

    5.5 Fundus Photography

    Color fundus photography will be performed at baseline, 6 months, 12 months or treatment
    failure. Photos will include fundus reflex images and non-stereoscopic fundus images.
    Vitreous haze will be graded according to the NEI and Davis scales by masked graders.
    Photographers will need to be certified by the Uveitis Photograph Reading Center prior to
    obtaining photos four our study. Please see UPRC manual (Appendix C) for instructions on
    certification and obtaining study photos.


                                                                                                        50
First-line Antimetabolites as Steroid-sparing Treatment (FAST) Uveitis Trial       September 4, 2012
Manual of Operation and Procedures



     5.6. Laboratory measurements

     Hematology and serum chemistry will be monitored in all patients prior to enrollment and
     throughout participation in the study. Each of the participating sites has an accredited onsite
     laboratory where all blood draws and laboratory measurements will be performed. The
     following will be measured and recorded on the Laboratory Report Form (Section A.7) for
     each:

     Hematology

     • Hemoglobin and/or hematocrit
     • Platelet count
     • White blood cell count (WBC)
       • % neutrophils; % lymphocytes
     Serum Chemistry

     •    SGOT (AST)
     •    SGPT (ALT)
     •    Creatinine
     •    Serum or urine for pregnancy test

     Laboratory measurements used for baseline visits should be collected within 1 4 days of
     the official visit date. Those used for follow-up visits may be collected at any time within the
     study visit window.

     All abnormal values will be reported on the Adverse Event Checklist (Section A.9) and
     monitored for resolution on the Adverse Event Log. Abnormalities which result in a non-
     serious adverse event (i.e. AST or ALT increasing to twice the upper limit of normal) will
     result in immediate stopping of study medications. As these abnormalities are often
     reversible, patients will be allowed one month to regain eligibility. If the lab results have
     returned to normal within one month, patients may be re- administered the study drug
     according to protocol. Labs can be checked prior to one month, and if normal, treatment
     can resume. Otherwise, treatment failure will be declared and patients will exit the study and
     be treated according to the best medical judgment of their physician. Note that treatment
     failure may be declared due to lack of efficacy if a patient’s inflammation becomes
     uncontrolled during this one month period if it occurs at the 6 month visit.

     Abnormalities which meet the designated threshold of a severe adverse event (SAE) will
     result in immediate stopping of study medications, and should be reported on the Serious
     Adverse Event Narrative form (Section A.11). Patients will then exit the study and be treated
     according to the best medical judgment of their physician.

6.       Adverse events
     6.1. Non-serious adverse event (AE)

     Non-serious adverse events may include any unfavorable medical occurrences in patients
     who have ever received study medication, regardless of any causal relationship with
     treatment. Examples* may include:
         • Increased intraocular pressure (>24 mm Hg)
         • Abnormal lab findings (> 2 times but < 5 times the upper limit of normal AST or
                                                                                                        51
 First-line Antimetabolites as Steroid-sparing Treatment (FAST) Uveitis Trial       September 4, 2012
 Manual of Operation and Procedures


              ALT, rise in creatinine to ≥ 1.5 to < 2 mg/dL, reduction of white blood cell count to
              below 2.5)
          •   Concurrent accident or illness
          •   Increase in the frequency and severity of symptoms of a pre-existing condition
          •   Side effects such as gastrointestinal upset, nausea, vomiting, fatigue

     *For additional details, please see the adverse event checklist
     (Section A.9)

     6.2. Serious adverse event (SAE)

     Serious adverse events include any medical occurrence that results in the following
     outcomes, or any other adverse event classified as severe*:
        • ≥ 5 times the upper limit of normal AST or ALT
        • Death
        • Non-elective surgery or hospitalization for any reason
        • Myocardial infarction or stroke
        • Life-threatening adverse drug experience
        • Persistent or significant disability or incapacity

     *For additional details, please see the adverse event checklist
     (Section A.9)

     6.3. Adverse event reporting

     Non-serious and serious adverse events will be recorded at each study visit on the
     appropriate form (Adverse Event Checklist and Log, Sections A.9-A.10). An adverse event
     log will be maintained for each patient to record the onset and resolution of any adverse
     events.

     In case of a Serious Adverse Event (SAE), the Serious Adverse Event Narrative Form
     (Section A.11) will be completed by the Investigator and submitted to the Medical Monitor,
     Dr. Todd Margolis (                           ) within 24 hours of the SAE. Information
     recorded on this form will include the nature of the event, date of onset, date of resolution,
     date of notification to Medical Monitor, and action taken. The form will be reviewed, signed
     and forwarded to the DSMC by the Medical Monitor. Any significant study drug-related
     adverse events will be reported by the coordinating center to the FDA and CHR office as
     appropriate.


     6.4. Patient death

     Any patient death that occurs during the study will be reported by the study center's
     Study Coordinator to the Medical Monitor within 24 hours. The study arm of any deceased
     patient will be made available to the DSMC by the DCC if appropriate.

7.   Data collection and management

 This section discusses how the data will be collected from the different Study Centers, entered
 into the computer database and stored, and transferred to the Data Analysis Committee under
 the supervision of the Data Coordinating Center (DCC). The data management plan described
                                                                                                        52
First-line Antimetabolites as Steroid-sparing Treatment (FAST) Uveitis Trial    September 4, 2012
Manual of Operation and Procedures


below is similar to what we are already using for our NEI-funded SCUT and MUTT clinical trials,
which enroll patients at Proctor/UCSF, Dartmouth, and at Aravind Eye Hospital in India.
Proctor/UCSF is the clinical and data coordinating center for these trials.

    7.1. Data collection forms

    The data collection forms are derived from the Steroids for Corneal Ulcers Trial, the Mycotic
    Ulcer Treatment Trial pilot and main trial, and the FAST pilot trial initiated as a precursor to
    this proposed study. These forms have been extensively field-tested by UCSF and Aravind
    investigators.

    Study personnel at each site will be given specific training for each form for which they
    will be responsible. Paper forms for each patient will be completed by study personnel
    (study physicians, refractionists, etc.) within 48 hours following the study visit at each study
    site. Questions which arise during the use of the forms will be communicated with the Data
    Coordinating Center at Proctor, and the results and answers will be communicated to all
    sites. Teleconferences and site visits will be held periodically for all users of the forms to
    review procedures and address questions.

    7.2. Data review

    Before data entry, the forms will be reviewed and cross-checked for consistency and
    completeness by the study coordinator within 24 hours of completing the form. If the forms
    are not filled out completely, the study coordinator will contact the person responsible for
    completing the form to provide the missing data, or clarify any inconsistent data. The study
    coordinator or investigators who filled out the form are the only people who are authorized to
    add missing data or make any changes to the study forms. All changes should be made
    with a red ink pen, and then signed and dated. The computer data entry forms contain
    two fields at the end, in which the data entry personnel will indicate whether or not
    there was any “red ink” (corrections to the paper form), and which fields contained
    corrections; this will be used in quality assurance monitoring. Further investigation may be
    conducted if certain fields or personnel are associated with a higher rate of paper form errors.
    7.3. Data entry

    Once the completed study forms have been reviewed and approved by the study
    coordinator, the study coordinator will enter the first round of data entry, before giving the
    forms to the data entry operators at each site, for them to complete the second entry. All
    data will be entered into the official electronic research data capture service at UCSF;
    REDCap.

    Our goal is for both data entries to occur within two working days of form review and
    approval by the study coordinator (and within 3 working days of form completion) in order
    to prevent the accumulation of un-entered forms. The database program contains an entry
    module for each form, prompting the user to enter the data in the same order as the
    form and clearly indicating each question. All data will be double-entered at each site, by the
    study coordinators and independent data entry operators to ensure accuracy.

         7.3.1. Data entry errors

    At each site, a data analyst will compare double-entered study data using the automated

                                                                                                    53
First-line Antimetabolites as Steroid-sparing Treatment (FAST) Uveitis Trial      September 4, 2012
Manual of Operation and Procedures


    feature in REDCap (with a goal of completing within 2 days of data entry completion).
    Wherever there is a mismatch, an error file will be generated with relevant data such as the
    form, field name, visit name, and data for which discrepancy is found. The data analyst will
    then contact the data entry operators to verify the forms and re-enter the data. Discrepancies
    and missing values will be assessed by the data analyst, and resolved by queries sent to the
    study coordinator and appropriate observers (clinician, refractionist, etc). A logfile will
    preserve the date and time of any changes, together with who entered the changes.

         7.3.2. Data consistency and validity

    A database data quality assessment program will be created in R programming software to
    help prevent inconsistencies or invalid data. The database program will check for the
    following errors: (1) improper entry of the patient ID based on the checksum, (2) data fields
    that are out of range, (3) inconsistent or illogical entries, (4) incompleteness, and (5)
    numerical values that are far outside the range of those previously entered. The software will
    create an error file with relevant data such as the form identification, field names and the
    data. Automated checks will be made to ensure consistency and that each variable in the
    analysis set has in-range values (protecting against negative ages, spelling errors in
    categorical factors, and similar errors). The DCC will conduct regular checks of the data at
    each site and will contact the study coordinator about any errors in order to resolve the
    inconsistencies and have the data entry operators enter the correct data.

         7.3.3. Data preparation and cleaning

    Data sets for analysis will be produced in Microsoft Excel® worksheets (downloaded from
    the REDCap system) containing a single header line whose variable names match the
    REDCap database. Each analysis set will be in the form of a rectangular table in which each
    column corresponds to a single variable and each row to an observation. All missing values
    will be coded explicitly using the string “NA” (as used in the R software). Codes for
    categorical variables (such as 1 for male, and 2 for female) will be avoided in favor of self-
    documenting character strings (such as Male, Female) whenever possible.

    A detailed codebook will be prepared, containing for each variable, (a) the form from which
    the variable derived, (b) the text of the question, (c) all possible values for the variable, and
    (d) summary statistics for the variable. Note that all codes and character strings that
    represent categorical factors will be clearly defined in the codebook. Units for each
    continuous variable (e.g. logMAR) will be unambiguously indicated for each variable. Each
    release of the analysis set will be accompanied by the corresponding version of the
    codebook. Version numbering with dates will be strictly observed.

         7.3.4. Monitoring

    We will maintain a record of (1) changes to the initial entries on database forms, and (2)
    changes made to all entered data. Database errors include (a) missing information, (b)
    erroneous information that was initially entered, and (c) errors arising from difficulties with the
    forms themselves. Weekly quality assurance reports will summarize the number of each of
    these. Most importantly, we will closely monitor the waiting time between the collection of the
    initial form and the entry of the data to ensure that this time is less than 48 hours. If entry
    times exceed 48 hours, then this will trigger a response, which may include investigation,
    retraining, and even reassignment.


                                                                                                      54
First-line Antimetabolites as Steroid-sparing Treatment (FAST) Uveitis Trial     September 4, 2012
Manual of Operation and Procedures


    7.4. Data analysis

    Following data checks by the data analyst, the Data Analysis Committee will be responsible
    for analyzing the data. It will merge the unmasked data with the randomization list, perform
    statistical analyses and prepare reports.


    Standard report-generation software included with the R statistical and data analysis
    package will be used to ensure consistency of the codebook and analysis set at all times.

    Data monitoring reports will be prepared based on analysis data sets. These will be
    prepared using report-generation software. Monitoring reports will include (a) recruitment
    reports for each center, (b) compliance reports, (c) retention reports, and (d) data quality
    reports. These will be reviewed by the DCC on a monthly basis, and communicated to the
    study sites on a monthly basis.

    7.5. Data storage and security

    Paper forms will be maintained in locked file cabinets in locked rooms only accessible to
    research staff at each study site.

    All electronic storage, both at the Aravind sites and at Proctor and Casey, will be subject to
    standard security procedures in compliance with established enterprise information security
    standards. Each computer will be hardware-firewalled and will not be accessible outside
    the Local Area Network. Hard-disk encryption will be used for each machine, and the
    machine will not be accessible without a network account and password. Only one
    individual at each site will have password access to the machine; new accounts may be
    provided by the local network administrator only with the approval of the DCC. Accounts will
    be immediately deactivated for data entry or other personnel who leave the study. The
    computer used for data entry and storage will be kept in a physically locked room, and
    only authorized study personnel will be able to access this machine. All individuals who
    access the server room will be logged as to time and date. At each center, the complete
    database (including all data tables as well as change logs) will be backed up weekly on the
    server and weekly on a CD/DVD, which will be kept at a safe, locked cabinet. Temperature
    logs will be maintained for the server room and reported.

    The database at the DCC will be stored on a SQL server located at 95 Kirkham Street, San
    Francisco, CA and three sets of backup copies on CD/DVD will be kept. The server is
    hardware-firewalled and also uses hard-disk encryption; it is inaccessible outside the Proctor
    network and cannot be physically accessed by anyone other than the network administrator.
    Other visitors must be accompanied by an information security professional and the visit will
    be logged. All data will be protected with passwords and the computer/server on which the
    data is stored and the backup copies on CD/DVD will be located in a lock-secured facility.
    Each back-up file will be archived offsite. In the event of disruption due to unforeseen
    circumstances, all materials needed to continue will be available from the offsite archive.

 8. Quality control

    With the help of the Data Coordinating Center and the Data Analysis Committee, the
    Clinical Coordinating Center will evaluate the quality of study activities (clinical examination,
    treatment compliance, refraction, etc.).

                                                                                                     55
 First-line Antimetabolites as Steroid-sparing Treatment (FAST) Uveitis Trial      September 4, 2012
 Manual of Operation and Procedures


     8.1. Medication storage and expiry

     Study medications will be stored at room temperature. The expiration dates of the treatment
     kits will be regularly monitored and all expired study medicine will be discarded appropriately.

     8.2. Periodic reports

     The Study Coordinators will send weekly reports on the number of eligible patients
     screened, the number of patients enrolled, reasons for ineligibility, and the number of
     patients who have come back for follow-up visits to the Clinical Coordinating Center. This
     will be used to monitor the enrollment/follow-up progress and any protocol violation in
     enrollment. The CCC will send bi- weekly reports to all investigators with a summary
     of overall enrollment and breakdown of enrollment at each site.

     When a site visit or training/certification is conducted at a study site, a report will be
     prepared and sent to the Executive Committee.

     The minutes of the DSMC meeting will be circulated electronically among the investigators
     and the members of the DSMC after each meeting.
     8.3. Data management, security and quality assurance

     See Section 7.

     8.4. Monitoring compliance

     Patients will be asked to record missed doses in individual treatment diaries and to bring
     them with their medication to each follow-up visit. The study coordinator will collect details of
     the number of doses missed by the patient and recorded these in the medication adherence
     log. In addition study coordinators will conduct pill counts at each visit.

     8.5. Certification

     For training and certification process, see Sections 5.2.3.

     8.6. Data audits

     Samples of data forms will be audited at each site to ensure consistency between
     the source documents and data entry. Patient charts will also be reviewed two times a year
     to confirm adherence to the protocol.

9. Duties and responsibilities of staff

     9.1. Ophthalmologist

              •    Responsible for enrolling study subjects
              •    Provide information for completing the clinical examination forms
              •    Obtain written consent from the subjects with the help of study coordinator
              •    Initiate study medication as per the randomization
              •    Responsible for the care of the patient throughout the course of the study
              •    Manage adverse events

                                                                                                       56
First-line Antimetabolites as Steroid-sparing Treatment (FAST) Uveitis Trial      September 4, 2012
Manual of Operation and Procedures


    9.2. Clinical Trial Manager

             •    Ensure the execution of the study as per the protocol
             •    Arrange training of the ophthalmic assistants, and refractionists
             •    Coordinate with the collaborating centers
             •    Prepare weekly reports regarding recruitment and follow-up progress
             •    Handle correspondence between centers
             •    Maintain IRB approval and renewals
             •    Communicate with central pharmacy regarding drug orders and distribution to sites

    9.3. Study Coordinator

             •    Make sure that appropriate patients are screened and enrolled in to the study
                  (including obtaining appropriate assent/consent)
             •    Prepare weekly reports regarding recruitment and follow-up progress
             •    Send reminders to study subjects for follow-up visits
             •    Meeting with the patient at each study visit, prior to the study ophthalmologist to
                  help maintain masking
             •    Assist ophthalmologist, ophthalmic assistants, and refractionists for conformity to
                  study procedures
             •    Verify data forms for completion and collect missing information
             •    Transfer study forms for prompt data entry
             •    Maintain stock of and dispense study medications

    9.4. Data Analyst

             •    Develop data entry programs specific to the study forms under the supervision of
                  DCC
             •    Monitor the flow of forms from the coordinator
             •    Supervise data entry operators for any errors or omissions
             •    Develop consistency checks
             •    Communicate with study coordinators and data entry operators to correct any
                  mistakes in study forms and data entry
             •    Transfer data as and when requested by the DCC
             •    Back up all data appropriately

    9.5. Data Entry Operator
             •    Enter all data from study forms when submitted by the study coordinator
             •    Verify inconsistencies in the forms and send them for correction to the study
                  coordinator
             •    Perform double entry to ensure accurate recording

     9.6. Biostatistician (Proctor)
             •    Review data for quality control purposes
             •    Prepare reports for DSMC
             •    Lock database at completion of study after database is cleaned
             •    Conduct analyses at the conclusion of the study
             •    Prepare randomization list and distribute the list to a pharmacist and non-
                  masked, senior physicians at the study sites in case of emergency.




                                                                                                      57
 First-line Antimetabolites as Steroid-sparing Treatment (FAST) Uveitis Trial       September 4, 2012
 Manual of Operation and Procedures


     9.7. Ophthalmic Assistants

              •    Obtain patient information
              •    Measure preliminary vision
              •    Assist ophthalmologist in the clinical examination/enrollment of the subject
              •    Counsel and motivate patients to return for scheduled follow-up visits


     9.8. Refractionists

              •    Perform manifest refraction as specified by protocol of both eyes at each visit
              •    Measure and record best spectacle-corrected visual acuity at each visit
              •    Enter visual acuity (number of letters read and Snellen equivalent) on the study
                   form

     9.9. OCT Operators

              •    Perform OCT photography as specified by protocol of both eyes at all visits

     9.10. Fundus Photographers

              •    Perform fundus photography as specified by protocol of both eyes at the baseline,
                   6 months, 12 months or treatment failure visits.

     9.11. Fundus Graders

              •    Complete grading of vitreous haze from images of fundus photography.

10. Study Organization

     10.1. Executive Committee

     The Executive Committee will be chaired by Dr. Acharya at the Proctor Foundation and will
     include Dr. Lietman and Dr. Porco. This committee will act as the administrative and
     executive arm of the clinical trial and will meet once a month to provide overall oversight for
     the study and make decisions on day-to-day operational issues. The role of the Executive
     Committee includes but is not limited to monitoring study progress and data collection
     process, supervising the Clinical Coordinating Center (CCC) and Data Coordinating Center
     (DCC) for overall quality control, evaluating and adopting changes in study procedures as
     necessary, communicating with and implementing recommendations from the Data and
     Safety Monitoring Committee, making executive decisions on the allocation of resources,
     establishing policies on publications and authorship, and approving and overseeing ancillary
     studies.

     10.2 Clinical Coordinating Center (CCC)

     Dr. Acharya will also be responsible for directing the CCC, located at the Proctor
     Foundation/UCSF. The responsibility of the CCC includes oversight and coordination of the
     clinical implementation of the trial at Aravind, Oregon Health Sciences and at Proctor/UCSF.
     Specifically, this includes roles such as maintaining an up-to-date manual of operations,
     obtaining human research approvals from Institutional Review Boards, conducting training
     and certification of all personnel including physicians and refractionists, supervising

                                                                                                        58
First-line Antimetabolites as Steroid-sparing Treatment (FAST) Uveitis Trial    September 4, 2012
Manual of Operation and Procedures


    preparation and dispensing of study medication, ensuring proper masking, and monitoring
    protocol adherence and recruitment. The CCC will monitor the recruitment progress with
    weekly reports from each of the study sites. It will also organize twice yearly site visits to
    conduct chart reviews, training and certification of study personnel and monthly phone calls
    with study investigators to review enrollment, retention and any other study-related issues.
    Under the direction of the CCC, Dr. Salena Lee, the senior optometrist at the Proctor
    Foundation, will be responsible for training/certifying study refractionists and managing the
    refraction protocol. She will also be responsible for monitoring overall quality of the OCT
    imaging. Dr. Todd Margolis, co-investigator, will serve as medical monitor of the trial. He will
    receive all reports of serious adverse events from all study sites, ascertain whether further
    information is needed, and convey that information to the DSMC. As with our current NEI-
    funded studies, the study coordinator at Proctor/UCSF (Natalie Nardone) will assist with
    many of the clinical coordination activities listed above and also check in weekly by email
    with the study coordinators at each site to discuss any study-related issues.

    10.3 Data Coordinating Center (DCC)

    The DCC including, Dr. Lietman, Dr. Porco and Dr. Enanoria, is responsible for supervising
    data collection, data management, data quality control, data analysis, event adjudication,
    and training and certification of study site staff in the data management systems. The DCC
    will also be responsible for coordinating and supporting the activities of the Data Safety
    Monitoring Committee, including preparing interim and final data reports and organizing
    meetings with the Data Analysis Committee. The DCC will also be responsible for the
    dissemination of datasets for use by the Data Analysis Committee and other investigators.
    The DCC will meet weekly to monitor the progress and quality of data entry/management
    and address any issues. The DCC will be in close contact with the data analysts and data
    entry operators to ensure quality assurance of data entry. See MOP for further information
    on data management (Section 7).

    10.4 Data Analysis Center (DAC)

    Dr. Porco will direct the Data Analysis Committee with assistance from Dr. Enanoria. The
    primary functions of the DAC include designing a statistical analysis plan, preparing and
    distributing randomization lists, performing data analysis, and coordinating publications and
    presentations. The Committee is responsible for obtaining data from the Data Coordinating
    Center, performing unmasked data analyses and for preparing reports for the Data and
    Safety Monitoring Committee, and at the conclusion of the study, for the Principal
    Investigator. The DAC will also be responsible for conducting the prespecified interim
    analysis (when 1/3 of patients complete the study) and also for providing data to the DSMC
    to evaluate the stopping guidelines.

    10.5 Data Safety and Monitoring Committee (DSMC)

    The Data Safety and Monitoring Committee (DSMC) will be independent and NEI-appointed,
    with experts from diverse fields including ethics, biostatistics, epidemiology, ophthalmology,
    and international health care, and include at least one member of the NEI staff as an ex
    officio member. The committee will meet for the first time before the study begins. Only
    after the DSMC reviews and approves the protocol will patients be enrolled. We anticipate
    the group will meet regularly throughout the study and review information on data quality,
    enrollment, patient retention, and study outcomes, etc. Committee members will be
    instructed to be vigilant for any trend in severe or unexpected adverse events that may
    threaten the safety of the patients. They will be authorized to implement a conservative,

                                                                                                    59
First-line Antimetabolites as Steroid-sparing Treatment (FAST) Uveitis Trial    September 4, 2012
Manual of Operation and Procedures


    early stopping rule.

    10.6 Editorial Committee

    The Editorial Committee is composed of the principal investigator Dr. Acharya and co-
    investigators Dr. Rathinam and Dr. Suhler. This committee has the responsibility to assist in
    the preparation of the primary study results and to review secondary manuscripts produced
    by the study investigators. They have the responsibility to ensure the completion of the
    primary manuscript (Specific Aim 1) in a timely manner and direct its submission for
    publication.

    10.7 Study Sites

    Under the supervision of the CCC, Dr. Rathinam will direct the Aravind clinical centers, Dr.
    Suhler will direct the Casey Eye Institute clinical center, and Dr. Acharya will be in charge of
    the Proctor Foundation clinical center.

    10.8 Pharmacy

    Leiter’s Pharmacy (San Jose, CA) is one of the country’s largest ophthalmic compounding
    pharmacies and is well known among ophthalmologists for their quality and reproducibility.
    They have participated in a number of clinical trials with experience in preparing and
    masking medications identified only by study ID, including the SCUT, MUTT and FAST pilot
    trials. We have worked with Chuck Leiter to discuss drug preparation for this study and cost
    estimates, and have experience with the medication distribution process from our pilot trial.
    Leiter’s Pharmacy will prepare all of the study medications for the trial.

    10.9 Study Communications

    The study coordinator at the Proctor Foundation (Natalie Nardone) will be responsible for
    ensuring that communication between all facilities and committees is conducted seamlessly.
    Communication between study personnel at the Proctor Foundation and investigators at
    other sites will be performed by extensive use of secure email. Much of the communication
    will be through email, but we have found that regular, international, conference calls are
    valuable, and that regular, face-to-face meetings are mandatory. Members of the CCC and
    the DCC at the Proctor Foundation will visit Oregon and Aravind every 4-6 months through
    the duration of the study to discuss details of the study and monitor quality control.




                                                                                                    60
 First-line Antimetabolites as Steroid-sparing Treatment (FAST) Uveitis Trial   September 4, 2012
 Manual of Operation and Procedures


11. Bibliography

 1. Nussenblatt RB. The natural history of uveitis. Int Ophthalmol 1990;14:303-8.
 2. Rothova A, Suttorp-van Schulten MS, Frits Treffers W, Kijlstra A. Causes and frequency of
 blindness in patients with intraocular inflammatory disease. Br J Ophthalmol 1996;80:332-6.
 3. Gritz DC, Wong IG. Incidence and prevalence of uveitis in Northern California; the Northern
 California Epidemiology of Uveitis Study. Ophthalmology 2004;111:491-500; discussion 500.
 4. Suttorp-Schulten MS, Rothova A. The possible impact of uveitis in blindness: a literature
 survey. Br J Ophthalmol 1996;80:844-8.
 5. Durrani OM, Meads CA, Murray PI. Uveitis: a potentially blinding disease. Ophthalmologica
 2004;218:223-36.
 6. Rothova A, Buitenhuis HJ, Meenken C, et al. Uveitis and systemic disease. Br J Ophthalmol
 1992;76:137-41.
 7. Smit RL, Baarsma GS, de Vries J. Classification of 750 consecutive uveitis patients in the
 Rotterdam Eye Hospital. Int Ophthalmol 1993;17:71-6.
 8. McCannel CA, Holland GN, Helm CJ, Cornell PJ, Winston JV, Rimmer TG. Causes of uveitis in
 the general practice of ophthalmology. UCLA Community-Based Uveitis Study Group. Am J
 Ophthalmol 1996;121:35-46.
 9. Mercanti A, Parolini B, Bonora A, Lequaglie Q, Tomazzoli L. Epidemiology of endogenous
 uveitis in north-eastern Italy. Analysis of 655 new cases. Acta Ophthalmol Scand 2001;79:64-8.
 10. Das D, Bhattacharjee H, Bhattacharyya PK, et al. Pattern of uveitis in North East India: a
 tertiary eye care center study. Indian J Ophthalmol 2009;57:144-6.
 11. Rathinam SR, Namperumalsamy P. Global variation and pattern changes in epidemiology of
 uveitis. Indian J Ophthalmol 2007;55:173-83.
 12. Jabs DA, Rosenbaum JT, Foster CS, et al. Guidelines for the use of immunosuppressive
 drugs in patients with ocular inflammatory disorders: recommendations of an expert panel. Am J
 Ophthalmol 2000;130:492-513.
 13. Galor A, Jabs DA, Leder HA, et al. Comparison of antimetabolite drugs as corticosteroid-
 sparing therapy for noninfectious ocular inflammation. Ophthalmology 2008;115:1826-32.
 14. Siepmann K, Huber M, Stubiger N, Deuter C, Zierhut M. Mycophenolate mofetil is a highly
 effective and safe immunosuppressive agent for the treatment of uveitis : a retrospective analysis
 of 106 patients. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol 2006;244:788-94.
 15. Teoh SC, Hogan AC, Dick AD, Lee RW. Mycophenolate mofetil for the treatment of uveitis.
 Am J Ophthalmol 2008;146:752-60, 760 e1-3.
 16. Thorne JE, Jabs DA, Qazi FA, Nguyen QD, Kempen JH, Dunn JP. Mycophenolate mofetil
 therapy for inflammatory eye disease. Ophthalmology 2005;112:1472-7.
 17. Larkin G, Lightman S. Mycophenolate mofetil. A useful immunosuppressive in inflammatory
 eye disease. Ophthalmology 1999;106:370-4.
 18. Kilmartin DJ, Forrester JV, Dick AD. Rescue therapy with mycophenolate mofetil in refractory
 uveitis. Lancet 1998;352:35-6.
 19. Baltatzis S, Tufail F, Yu EN, Vredeveld CM, Foster CS. Mycophenolate mofetil as an
 immunomodulatory agent in the treatment of chronic ocular inflammatory disorders.
 Ophthalmology 2003;110:1061-5.
 20. Choudhary A, Harding SP, Bucknall RC, Pearce IA. Mycophenolate mofetil as an
 immunosuppressive agent in refractory inflammatory eye disease. J Ocul Pharmacol Ther
 2006;22:168-75.
 21. Bom S, Zamiri P, Lightman S. Use of methotrexate in the management of sight-threatening
 uveitis. Ocul Immunol Inflamm 2001;9:35-40.
 22. Dev S, McCallum RM, Jaffe GJ. Methotrexate treatment for sarcoid-associated panuveitis.
 Ophthalmology 1999;106:111-8.
 23. Foeldvari I, Wierk A. Methotrexate is an effective treatment for chronic uveitis associated with
 juvenile idiopathic arthritis. J Rheumatol 2005;32:362-5.
                                                                                                    61
First-line Antimetabolites as Steroid-sparing Treatment (FAST) Uveitis Trial   September 4, 2012
Manual of Operation and Procedures


24. Gangaputra S, Newcomb CW, Liesegang TL, et al. Methotrexate for Ocular Inflammatory
Diseases. Ophthalmology 2009.
25. Holz FG, Krastel H, Breitbart A, Schwarz-Eywill M, Pezzutto A, Volcker HE. Low-dose
methotrexate treatment in noninfectious uveitis resistant to corticosteroids. Ger J Ophthalmol
1992;1:142-4.
26. Shah SS, Lowder CY, Schmitt MA, Wilke WS, Kosmorsky GS, Meisler DM. Low-dose
methotrexate therapy for ocular inflammatory disease. Ophthalmology 1992;99:1419-23.
27. Taylor SR, Habot-Wilner Z, Pacheco P, Lightman SL. Intraocular methotrexate in the
treatment of uveitis and uveitic cystoid macular edema. Ophthalmology 2009;116:797-801.
28. Daniel E, Thorne JE, Newcomb CW, et al. Mycophenolate Mofetil for Ocular Inflammation.
Am J Ophthalmol 2009.
29. Sobrin L, Christen W, Foster CS. Mycophenolate mofetil after methotrexate failure or
intolerance in the treatment of scleritis and uveitis. Ophthalmology 2008;115:1416-21, 1421 e1.
30. Jabs DA, Nussenblatt RB, Rosenbaum JT. Standardization of uveitis nomenclature for
reporting clinical data. Results of the First International Workshop. Am J Ophthalmol 2005; 140:
509-16.
31. Nussenblatt RB, Palestine AG, Chan CC, Roberge F. Standardization of vitreal inflammatory
activity in intermediate and posterior uveitis. Ophthalmology 1985;92:467-71.
32. Manual of Operations: Age Related Eye Disease Study, 2000.
33. Sherring AK. A Practical Guide on Refraction, 1999.




                                                                                                   62
            NEI U10 EY021125-01



First-line Antimetabolites as Steroid-sparing
        Treatment (FAST) Uveitis Trial




       Manual of Operations & Procedures
                     (MOP)



                    January 06, 2017
                      Version 4.5
