First-line Antimetabolites as Steroid-sparing Treatment (FAST) Uveitis Trial           January 6, 2017 - Version 4.5
Manual of Operation and Procedures



                      Figure 2: Miami 9-point system for grading vitreous haze




                         Miami Scale for photographic grading of vitreous haze in uveitis. Am J
                         Ophth;150:637-641 e1.

    Grading Retinal/Choroidal Inflammation

    Assessment of active inflammation of the retina and choroid should be based on the
    clinical exam and ancillary testing if needed for certain diseases (i.e. fluorescein
    angiogram, fundus photography, B-scan ultrasound). Please refer to the table in
    Appendix F for imaging required for assessing uveitis activity by disease.
    Active vasculitis posterior to the equator qualifies as active inflammation, but according to
    SUN criteria should be confirmed with a fluorescein angiogram. Macular edema in
    isolation is not sufficient to qualify as active inflammation, but a bullous serous retinal
    detachment, with any amount of accompanying vitreous, retinal or choroidal inflammation
    would qualify as an active inflammation. In addition, per protocol, if patients have ≥1+
    anterior chamber inflammation, vitreous haze and/or other retinal/choroidal lesions aside
    from macular edema, that would qualify as active as well.

       5.3.3. Inter-observer variation of ocular inflammation

    At Baseline (Phase I and Phase II) the 6th month study visit (Phase I and Phase II), the 12th
    month study visit (Phase I), or at treatment failure (whichever is earlier), inter-observer
    agreement on slit lamp observations and funduscopic exam will be assessed. Coordinators
    will arrange for two certified study physicians to measure anterior chamber cells, anterior
    chamber flare, vitreous cells, vitreous haze, and retinal/choroidal lesions at the Month 6 and
    12 visit or at declaration of treatment failure. The inter- observer variation will be reported.
    The primary study ophthalmologist’s measurements will be used for primary analysis.

       5.3.4. Training and certification of ophthalmologists and study coordinators
    All exams must be performed by uveitis specialists. The study protocol and classification
    system for grading inflammation will be reviewed by Dr. Acharya (or another study
    ophthalmologist from Proctor Foundation) with the investigators at all sites. An open-book
    exam on the study protocol will be administered, and a score of 80% is needed for
                                                                                                                   65
 First-line Antimetabolites as Steroid-sparing Treatment (FAST) Uveitis Trial   January 6, 2017 - Version 4.5
 Manual of Operation and Procedures


     certification to participate in the trial. For investigators with scores less than 80%, additional
     instruction and a re-test will be done. Prior to study start, each site investigator will grade
     inflammation on 5 uveitis patients and scores will be compared to the Proctor investigator’s
     scores. If a discrepancy of greater than 1 grade in any of the measurements occurs, then
     additional patients will be graded until there are 5 consecutive patients where the grade is
     within 1 level for each of the measurements (i.e. anterior chamber cells, vitreous haze, and
     retinal/choroidal lesions). If both graders assess each area to have 0 inflammation in a
     particular patient, that patient would not count towards the 5 patients needed to complete
     the training. This grading assessment will be done prior to initiation of the trial and yearly
     thereafter. Duplicate measurements of inflammation will also be collected at the 6 and/or 12-
     month study visits. Inter-observer agreement will be reported.

     The study protocol will be reviewed with all study coordinators by coordinating center
     personnel. An open-book exam on the study protocol will be administered, and a score of
     80% is needed for certification to participate in the trial. For coordinators with scores less
     than 80%, additional instruction and a re-test will be done.

5.4. Optical coherence tomography

     We will be using spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT) in this study to
     monitor the effects of treatment by measuring macular thickness and changes in macular
     thickness. We will be utilizing the Heidelberg Spectralis SD-OCT unit for all study
     assessments. Each site must have access to the Heidelberg Spectralis unit at the time of
     study initiation and must continue to use that same scanner for all patients for the duration of
     the study. If Heidelberg Spectralis is not available, the Zeiss Cirrus SD-OCT may be used.


        5.4.1. Required patient assessments—Heidelberg Spectralis

          For our study, one of each of the following scans is required for each eye:

               •   20° x 20° High Speed Volume scan centered on the macula

                        o   20° x 20°
                        o   49 sections
                        o   16 frames (ART)

               •   7-Lines scan centered on the macula
                      o 30° x 5°
                      o 7 sections
                      o 25 frames (ART)

          5.4.2. Scan procedures—Heidelberg Spectralis
          Procedures for Obtaining Scans
          General Guidelines
             • Scans may be obtained if the patient’s pupils are not dilated. However, pupil
                dilation prior to obtaining scans is encouraged
             • Clean chin rest and forehead rests
             • Adjust table and chin rest height to ensure patient comfort
             • Make sure that patient is aligned straight; slight face turns to the left or
                right may decrease scan quality

                                                                                                            66
First-line Antimetabolites as Steroid-sparing Treatment (FAST) Uveitis Trial   January 6, 2017 - Version 4.5
Manual of Operation and Procedures


             Click on the Preset “Dense” scan icon on the screen to obtain the 20° x 20° volume
             scan. Please make sure that the scan will have the following parameters:
                     o 20° x 20°
                     o 49 sections
                     o 16 frames (ART)

             •    Pull the camera all the way back
             •    Move the instrument toward the patient slowly, taking care not to alarm patient
                  and to not touch the patient’s eyes or eyelashes with the instrument
             •    Ask patient to fixate on the blue light on the inside of the machine
             •    Remind patient not to follow the movement of the red scan lines
             •    If patient is having trouble focusing on fixation light, you may need to help the
                  patient direct his/her gaze by using external fixation targets
             •    Focus in on the circular black and white retinal reflex
             •    Move the camera forward so that the fundus image comes into view and fills the
                  screen
             •    Use the focusing knob to obtain maximum brightness and clarity of the image
             •    Ensure that the image is maintained in the upper third of the screen
             •    Click “Acquire”
             •    Repeat for next eye

             Click on the “7 Lines” Preset Scan icon
             This scan will have the following parameters:
                     o 30° x 5°
                     o 7 sections
                     o 25 frames (ART)

             •    Focus image as described above
             •    Click “Acquire”
             •    Repeat for next eye
             •    Please review scans for completeness and quality. A good quality scan
                  should have a score of at least 20. Please repeat any scans that are not
                  complete or of poor quality.


             5.4.3. Obtaining retinal thickness data—Heidelberg Spectralis

             •    After closing the acquisition window, double click on the volume scan.
             •    Select “Thickness Map” tab
             •    Record central subfield thickness of each eye on data sheet
             •    Print out copy of scan for patient file

         Be sure to complete analysis of data and record information on data collection form as
         soon as possible. This will ensure that the treating physician will be able to use the
         SD-OCT results in real time to determine if macular edema is present or not.

                 5.4.4. Saving/Exporting data—Heidelberg Spectralis
       Saving Data

             •    All scans should be saved and archived at each study site on the Heidleberg SD-
                  OCT unit.
             •    Even if your clinic saves all scans onto a server, please follow the instructions
                                                                                                           67
First-line Antimetabolites as Steroid-sparing Treatment (FAST) Uveitis Trial   January 6, 2017 - Version 4.5
Manual of Operation and Procedures


                  below to save all scans for FAST study patients onto an external hard drive.
                      o After obtaining scans, highlight all study scans together, right click and
                         choose “Export as E2E”
                      o Click on the “Anonymize data” box in order to ensure patient confidentiality
                      o In the “Export File” filed: Name the E2E file as “Patient Study ID-Visit
                         Number-Date of visit”, example “2H003-M6-17NOV2014”
                      o In the “Last Name” field: Type in the Patient’s Study ID and Visit, example
                         “2H003 M6”




                       o   Save the “E2E” data onto a removable hard drive separate from the main
                           unit; this raw data may be requested from each site at a later date.
                       o   Please ensure that your removable storage drive(s) is/are HIPAA compliant
                           as defined by your institution

       Exporting E2E Data to Reading Center
           •    Create a folder on the desktop and/or on a removable drive for each patient visit:
                    Label this new folder with “Study-SiteID-Patient Study ID-Visit Number- Date
                    of visit”, example: “FAST-UCSF-2Q001-M1-10AUG2012”
           • Place the E2E file into the folder
           • Complete a “FAST Study Transmittal Form” (electronic copy or scan completed
               paper form) and add into the created folder
                  o In the “Clinic ID” field of the Transmittal Form, please enter the 4-letter
                      code for your clinic. Contact coordinating center if you have any questions
                      regarding your Clinic ID code.
                                                                                                           68
First-line Antimetabolites as Steroid-sparing Treatment (FAST) Uveitis Trial   January 6, 2017 - Version 4.5
Manual of Operation and Procedures


    site before that start of the trial to meet with these technicians to review all required OCT
    procedures specified in our protocol. OCT operators must be able to demonstrate ability to
    obtain quality scans as well as knowledge of the study protocol.

    5.5. Fundus Photography

    Color fundus photography will be performed at baseline, 6 months, 12 months or treatment
    failure. Photos will include fundus reflex images and non-stereoscopic fundus images. Images
    should be uploaded to: http://eyehealthusf.org/uploadi/index.php according to instructions in
    UPRC manual.

    Vitreous haze will be graded according to the NEI and Miami scales by masked graders.
    Photographers will need to be certified by the Uveitis Photograph Reading Center prior to
    obtaining photos for our study. Please see UPRC manual (Appendix E) for instructions on
    certification and obtaining study photos.

    5.6. Laboratory measurements

    Hematology and serum chemistry will be monitored in all patients prior to enrollment and
    throughout participation in the study. Each of the participating sites has an accredited onsite
    laboratory where all blood draws and laboratory measurements will be performed. The
    following will be measured and recorded on the Laboratory Report Form (Section A.8) for
    each:

    Hematology
    • Hemoglobin and/or hematocrit
    • Platelet count
    • White blood cell count (WBC)
      • % neutrophils; % lymphocytes
      • CD4 lymphocyte count (UCSF, AEH, KKESH sites only, at Baseline, Month 3, 6, & 12)

    Serum Chemistry
    • SGOT (AST)
    • SGPT (ALT)
    • Creatinine
    • Serum or urine pregnancy test

    Laboratory measurements used for baseline visits should be collected 4 weeks prior to
    enrollment. Those used for follow-up visits may be collected at any time within the study visit
    window. Laboratory measurements must be collected at each study visit.

    All abnormal values will be reported on the Adverse Event Checklist (Section A.10) and
    monitored for resolution on the Adverse Event Log. Abnormalities which result in a non-
    serious adverse event (i.e. AST or ALT increasing to twice the upper limit of normal) will
    result in immediate stopping of study medications. As these abnormalities are often
    reversible, patients will be allowed one month to regain eligibility. If the lab results have
    returned to normal within one month, patients may be re-administered the study drug
    according to protocol. Labs can be checked prior to one month, and if normal, treatment
    can resume. Otherwise, treatment failure will be declared and patients may be treated
    according to best medical judgment of physician. They should still be followed for their 6th
    months visit and be treated according to the best medical judgment of their physician.

                                                                                                           71
 First-line Antimetabolites as Steroid-sparing Treatment (FAST) Uveitis Trial   January 6, 2017 - Version 4.5
 Manual of Operation and Procedures


     event, date of onset, date of resolution, date of notification to Medical Monitor, and action
     taken. The Medical Monitor will review, sign, decide if the serious adverse event was related
     to the study drug, and collect additional information if needed.

     If any serious adverse event other than a laboratory abnormality occurs, treatment failure
     cannot be declared until the Medical Monitor judges that the SAE is related to the study drug.
     This will require the investigator notifying the Medical Monitor about the event, and the
     Medical Monitor contacting the investigator regarding his determination. The Medical
     Monitor will determine two things: 1) whether this is a true treatment failure because the
     SAE is likely related to the study drug, and 2) whether it is safe to switch the patient to
     Phase II. If it is not safe to switch the patient will be treated with best medical judgment and
     still be followed for 6 months.

     If the investigator thinks the SAE is related to the study drug, he/she can stop the study
     medication anytime (including prior to determination of treatment failure by the medical
     monitor). If the investigator thinks treatment failure is likely (prior to hearing from the Medical
     Monitor) they should obtain all study assessments, which would be collected at a treatment
     failure visit. However, the investigator will wait to complete the Treatment Assessment Form
     and officially declare treatment failure, until they are instructed to do so by the Medical
     Monitor.

     Any significant study drug-related adverse events will be reported by the coordinating center
     to the FDA and CHR office as appropriate. The principal statistician will inform the DSMC of
     serious adverse events by arm every six months.

     6.4. Patient death

     Any patient death that occurs during the study will be reported by the study center's
     Study Coordinator to the Medical Monitor within 24 hours. The study arm of any deceased
     patient will be made available to the DSMC by the DCC if appropriate.


7. Data collection and management

     This section discusses how the data will be collected from the different Study Centers,
     entered into the computer database and stored, and transferred to the Data Analysis
     Committee under the supervision of the Data Coordinating Center (DCC). The data
     management plan described below is similar to what we are already using for our NEI-
     funded SCUT and MUTT clinical trials, which enroll patients at Proctor/UCSF, and at Aravind
     Eye Hospital in India. Proctor/UCSF is the clinical and data coordinating center for these
     trials.

     7.1. Data collection forms

     The data collection forms are derived from the Steroids for Corneal Ulcers Trial, the Mycotic
     Ulcer Treatment Trial pilot and main trial, and the FAST pilot trial initiated as a precursor to
     this proposed study. These forms have been extensively field-tested by UCSF and Aravind
     investigators.

     Study personnel at each site will be given specific training for each form for which they
     will be responsible. Paper forms for each patient will be completed by study personnel
     (study physicians, refractionists, etc.) on paper in real time when the patient is being
                                                                                                            73
First-line Antimetabolites as Steroid-sparing Treatment (FAST) Uveitis Trial   January 6, 2017 - Version 4.5
Manual of Operation and Procedures


    assessed. Teleconferences and site visits will be held periodically for all users of the forms to
    review procedures and address questions.

    7.2. Data review

    Data will be reviewed in real time, as the patient is being assessed. The study coordinator
    will verify with the personnel filling out the forms that they are complete. Before scanning to
    be sent to Proctor for data entry, the forms will be reviewed and cross-checked for
    consistency and completeness by the study coordinator within 24 hours of completing the
    form. If the forms are not filled out completely, the study coordinator will contact the person
    responsible for completing the form to provide the missing data, or clarify any inconsistent
    data. The study coordinator or investigators who filled out the form are the only people who
    are authorized to add missing data or make any changes to the study forms. All changes
    should be made with a red ink pen, and then signed and dated. Further investigation may
    be conducted if certain fields or personnel are associated with a higher rate of paper form
    errors.

    7.3. Data entry

    Once the completed study forms have been reviewed and approved by the study
    coordinator, the study coordinator will scan and email the forms to the study email
    address                             within 10 days of the patient visit. All data will be
    entered into the official electronic research data capture service at UCSF: REDCap.
    Each study form will be double entered by two independent data entry operators at
    Aravind. The data entry manager will merge the entries, checking for any
    inconsistencies or errors. The goal is for both data entries and data merging to occur
    within 10 days of receiving the completed forms in order to prevent the accumulation of
    un-entered forms. The database program contains an entry module for each form,
    prompting the user to enter the data in the same order as the form and clearly
    indicating each question.

       7.3.1. Data entry errors

    The data entry manager will compare double-entered study data using the automated feature
    in REDCap. Wherever there is a mismatch, an error file will be generated with relevant data
    such as the form, field name, visit name, and data for which discrepancy is found. The data
    entry manager will then contact the data entry operators to verify the forms and re-enter the
    data. Discrepancies and missing values will be assessed by the data entry manager, and
    resolved by queries sent to the study coordinator and appropriate observers (clinician,
    refractionist, etc). A logfile will preserve the date and time of any changes, together with who
    entered the changes.

       7.3.2. Data consistency and validity

    A database data quality assessment program will be created in R programming software to
    help prevent inconsistencies or invalid data. The database program will check for the
    following errors: (1) improper entry of the patient ID based on the checksum, (2) data fields
    that are out of range, (3) inconsistent or illogical entries, (4) incompleteness, and (5)
    numerical values that are far outside the range of those previously entered. The software will
    create an error file with relevant data such as the form identification, field names and the
    data. Automated checks will be made to ensure consistency and that each variable in the
    analysis set has in-range values (protecting against negative ages, spelling errors in
                                                                                                           74
First-line Antimetabolites as Steroid-sparing Treatment (FAST) Uveitis Trial   January 6, 2017 - Version 4.5
Manual of Operation and Procedures


    categorical factors, and similar errors). The DCC will conduct regular checks of the data at
    each site and will contact the study coordinator about any errors in order to resolve the
    inconsistencies and have the data entry operators enter the correct data.


       7.3.3. Data preparation and cleaning

    Data sets for analysis will be produced in Microsoft Excel® worksheets (downloaded from
    the REDCap system) containing a single header line whose variable names match the
    REDCap database. Each analysis set will be in the form of a rectangular table in which each
    column corresponds to a single variable and each row to an observation. All missing values
    will be coded explicitly using the string “NA” (as used in the R software). Codes for
    categorical variables (such as 1 for male, and 2 for female) will be avoided in favor of self-
    documenting character strings (such as Male, Female) whenever possible.

    A detailed codebook will be prepared, containing for each variable, (a) the form from which
    the variable derived, (b) the text of the question, (c) all possible values for the variable, and
    (d) summary statistics for the variable. Note that all codes and character strings that
    represent categorical factors will be clearly defined in the codebook. Units for each
    continuous variable (e.g. logMAR) will be unambiguously indicated for each variable. Each
    release of the analysis set will be accompanied by the corresponding version of the
    codebook. Version numbering with dates will be strictly observed.

       7.3.4. Monitoring

    We will maintain a record of (1) changes to the initial entries on database forms, and (2)
    changes made to all entered data. Database errors include (a) missing information, (b)
    erroneous information that was initially entered, and (c) errors arising from difficulties with the
    forms themselves. Quality assurance reports will summarize the number of each of these.
    Most importantly, we will closely monitor the waiting time between the collection of the initial
    form and the entry of the data. If entry times exceed 30 days, then this will trigger a
    response, which may include investigation, retraining, and even reassignment.

    7.4. Data analysis

    Following data checks by the data analyst, the Data Analysis Committee will be responsible
    for analyzing the data. At designated time points, it will be merged the unmasked data
    with the randomization list, perform statistical analyses and prepare reports.

    Standard report-generation software included with the R statistical and data analysis
    package will be used to ensure consistency of the codebook and analysis set at all times.

    Data monitoring reports will be prepared based on analysis data sets. These will be
    prepared using report-generation software. Monitoring reports will include (a) recruitment
    reports for each center, (b) compliance reports, (c) retention reports, and (d) data quality
    reports. These will be reviewed by the DCC on a monthly basis, and communicated to the
    study sites on a monthly basis.

    7.5. Data storage and security

    Paper forms will be maintained in locked file cabinets in locked rooms only accessible to
    research staff at each study site. All PDFs of forms will be sent to the study coordinator at
                                                                                                           75
 First-line Antimetabolites as Steroid-sparing Treatment (FAST) Uveitis Trial   January 6, 2017 - Version 4.5
 Manual of Operation and Procedures


     Proctor. They should be sent through a secure email and saved on a secure server.

     All electronic storage will be subject to standard security procedures in compliance with
     established enterprise information security standards. Each computer will be hardware-
     firewalled and will not be accessible outside the Local Area Network. Hard-disk encryption
     will be used for each machine, and the machine will not be accessible without a network
     account and password. Only one individual at each site will have password access to the
     machine; new accounts may be provided by the local network administrator only with the
     approval of the DCC. Accounts will be immediately deactivated for data entry or other
     personnel who leave the study. The computer used for data entry and storage will be kept
     in a physically locked room, and only authorized study personnel will be able to access this
     machine. All individuals who access the server room will be logged as to time and date. At
     each center, the complete database (including all data tables as well as change logs) will be
     backed up weekly on the server and weekly on a CD/DVD, which will be kept at a safe,
     locked cabinet. Temperature logs will be maintained for the server room and reported.

     The database at the DCC will be stored on a SQL server located at 95 Kirkham Street, San
     Francisco, CA and three sets of backup copies on CD/DVD will be kept. The server is
     hardware-firewalled and also uses hard-disk encryption; it is inaccessible outside the Proctor
     network and cannot be physically accessed by anyone other than the network administrator.
     Other visitors must be accompanied by an information security professional and the visit will
     be logged. All data will be protected with passwords and the computer/server on which the
     data is stored and the backup copies on CD/DVD will be located in a lock-secured facility.
     Each back-up file will be archived offsite. In the event of disruption due to unforeseen
     circumstances, all materials needed to continue will be available from the offsite archive.

8. Quality control

     With the help of the Data Coordinating Center and the Data Analysis Committee, the
     Clinical Coordinating Center will evaluate the quality of study activities (clinical examination,
     treatment compliance, refraction, etc.).

     8.1. Medication storage and expiry

     Study medications will be stored at room temperature. The expiration dates of the treatment
     kits will be regularly monitored and all expired study medicine will be discarded appropriately.


     8.2. Periodic reports

     The Study Coordinators will send weekly reports to the clinical coordinating center, on the
     number of eligible patients screened, the number of patients enrolled, reasons for
     ineligibility, and the number of patients who have come back for follow-up visits. This will be
     used to monitor the enrollment/follow-up progress and any protocol violation in
     enrollment. The CCC will send monthly reports to all investigators with a summary of
     overall enrollment and breakdown of enrollment at each site.

     When a site visit or training/certification is conducted at a study site, a report will be
     prepared and sent to the Executive Committee.

     The minutes of the DSMC meeting will be circulated electronically among the investigators
     and the members of the DSMC after each meeting.
                                                                                                            76
 First-line Antimetabolites as Steroid-sparing Treatment (FAST) Uveitis Trial   January 6, 2017 - Version 4.5
 Manual of Operation and Procedures



     8.3. Data management, security and quality assurance
     See Section 7.

     8.4. Monitoring compliance

     Patients will be asked to record missed doses in individual treatment calendars and to bring
     them with their medication to each follow-up visit. The study coordinator will collect details of
     the number of doses missed by the patient and record these in the medication log. In
     addition study coordinators will conduct pill counts at each visit.

     8.5. Certification

     For training and certification process, see Sections 5.2.3.

     8.6. Data audits

     Samples of data forms will be audited at each site to ensure consistency between
     the source documents and data entry. Patient charts will also be reviewed two times a year
     to confirm adherence to the protocol.

9. Duties and responsibilities of staff

        9.1. Ophthalmologist

              •    Note: whenever possible, the primary study ophthalmologist should be the same
                   person across all a patient’s study visits, for consistency of measurements
              •    Responsible for enrolling study subjects
              •    Provide information for completing the clinical examination forms
              •    Obtain written consent from the subjects with the help of study coordinator
              •    Initiate study medication as per the randomization
              •    Responsible for the care of the patient throughout the course of the study
              •    Manage adverse events

        9.2. Clinical Trial Manager

              •    Ensure the execution of the study as per the protocol
              •    Arrange training of the ophthalmic assistants, and refractionists
              •    Coordinate with the collaborating centers
              •    Prepare monthly reports regarding recruitment and follow-up progress
              •    Handle correspondence between centers
              •    Maintain IRB approval and renewals
              •    Communicate with central pharmacy regarding drug orders and distribution to sites

        9.3. Study Coordinator

              •    Make sure that appropriate patients are screened and enrolled in to the study
                   (including obtaining appropriate assent/consent)
              •    Prepare weekly reports regarding recruitment and follow-up progress
              •    Send reminders to study patients for follow-up visits
              •    Meet with the patient at each study visit, prior to the study ophthalmologist to help
                   maintain masking
                                                                                                            77
First-line Antimetabolites as Steroid-sparing Treatment (FAST) Uveitis Trial   January 6, 2017 - Version 4.5
Manual of Operation and Procedures


             •    Assist ophthalmologist, ophthalmic assistants, and refractionists with conforming
                  to study procedures
             •    Verify data forms for completion and collect missing information
             •    Send study forms for prompt data entry
             •    Maintain stock of and dispense study medications

       9.4. Data Analyst

             •    Develop data entry programs specific to the study forms under the supervision of
                  DCC
             •    Monitor the flow of forms from the coordinator
             •    Supervise data entry operators for any errors or omissions
             •    Develop consistency checks
             •    Communicate with study coordinators and data entry operators to correct any
                  mistakes in study forms and data entry
             •    Transfer data as and when requested by the DCC
             •    Back up all data appropriately

       9.5. Data Entry Operator
             •    Enter all data from study forms when submitted by the study coordinator
             •    Verify inconsistencies in the forms and send them for correction to the study
                  coordinator
             •    Perform double entry to ensure accurate recording

       9.6. Biostatistician (Proctor)
             •    Review data for quality control purposes
             •    Prepare reports for DSMC
             •    Lock database at completion of study after database is cleaned
             •    Conduct analyses at the conclusion of the study
             •    Prepare randomization list and distribute the list to a pharmacist and non-
                  masked, senior physicians at the study sites in case of emergency.

       9.7. Ophthalmic Assistants

             •    Obtain patient information
             •    Measure preliminary vision
             •    Assist ophthalmologist in the clinical examination/enrollment of the subject
             •    Counsel and motivate patients to return for scheduled follow-up visits

       9.8. Refractionists

             •    Perform manifest refraction as specified by protocol of both eyes at each visit
             •    Measure and record best spectacle-corrected visual acuity at each visit
             •    Enter visual acuity (number of letters read and Snellen equivalent) on the form

       9.9. OCT Operators

             •    Perform OCT photography as specified by protocol of both eyes at all visits




                                                                                                           78
 First-line Antimetabolites as Steroid-sparing Treatment (FAST) Uveitis Trial   January 6, 2017 - Version 4.5
 Manual of Operation and Procedures


        9.10. Fundus Photographers

              •    Perform fundus photography as specified by protocol of both eyes at the baseline,
                   6 months, 12 months or treatment failure visits

        9.11. The Reading Center

              •    Complete grading of vitreous haze from images of fundus photography
              •    Process OCT images


10. Study Organization
     10.1. Executive Committee

     The Executive Committee will be chaired by Dr. Acharya at the Proctor Foundation and will
     include Dr. Lietman and Dr. Porco. This committee will act as the administrative and
     executive arm of the clinical trial and will meet once a month to provide overall oversight for
     the study and make decisions on day-to-day operational issues. The role of the Executive
     Committee includes monitoring study progress and data collection process, supervising the
     Clinical Coordinating Center (CCC) and Data Coordinating Center (DCC) for overall quality
     control, evaluating and adopting changes in study procedures as necessary, communicating
     with and implementing recommendations from the Data and Safety Monitoring Committee,
     making executive decisions on the allocation of resources, establishing policies on
     publications and authorship, and approving and overseeing ancillary studies.

     10.2. Clinical Coordinating Center (CCC)

     Dr. Acharya will also be responsible for directing the CCC, located at the Proctor
     Foundation/UCSF. The responsibility of the CCC includes oversight and coordination of the
     clinical implementation of the trial at all sites. Specifically, this includes roles such as
     maintaining an up-to-date manual of operations, obtaining human research approvals from
     Institutional Review Boards, conducting training and certification of all personnel including
     physicians and refractionists, supervising preparation and dispensing of study medication,
     ensuring proper masking, and monitoring protocol adherence and recruitment. The CCC will
     monitor the recruitment progress with weekly reports from each of the study sites. It will also
     organize twice yearly site visits to conduct chart reviews, training and certification of study
     personnel and monthly phone calls with study investigators to review enrollment, retention
     and any other study-related issues. The coordinating center will be responsible for
     training/certifying study refractionists and managing the refraction protocol. Dr. Jeremy
     Keenan will serve as medical monitor of the trial. He will receive all reports of serious
     adverse events from all study sites, ascertain whether further information is needed, and
     convey that information to the DSMC. As with our current NEI-funded studies, the study
     coordinator at Proctor/UCSF will serve as the manager of the coordinating center and will
     assist with many of the clinical coordination activities listed above and also check in weekly
     by email with the study coordinators at each site to discuss any study-related issues.

     10.3. Uveitis Photograph Reading Center (UPRC)

     The Reading Center at University of South Florida, run by Dr. Brian Madow, will receive
     OCT and fundus photos from all study sites. Grading of OCT and fundus photography will be
     conducted by trained personnel. They will assess type of macular edema, presence of

                                                                                                            79
First-line Antimetabolites as Steroid-sparing Treatment (FAST) Uveitis Trial   January 6, 2017 - Version 4.5
Manual of Operation and Procedures


    epiretinal membrane, and evaluate vitreous haze using the NEI and Miami scale fundus
    photos. They will also be responsible for monitoring quality of images.


    10.4. Data Coordinating Center (DCC)

    The DCC including, Dr. Lietman and Dr. Porco, is responsible for supervising data collection,
    data management, data quality control, data analysis, event adjudication, and training and
    certification of study site staff in the data management systems. The DCC will also be
    responsible for coordinating and supporting the activities of the Data Safety Monitoring
    Committee, including preparing interim and final data reports and organizing meetings with
    the Data Analysis Committee. The DCC will also be responsible for the dissemination of
    datasets for use by the Data Analysis Committee and other investigators. The DCC will meet
    weekly to monitor the progress and quality of data entry/management and address any
    issues. The DCC will be in close contact with the data analysts and data entry operators to
    ensure quality assurance of data entry. See MOP for further information on data
    management (Section 7).

    10.5. Data Analysis Center (DAC)

    Dr. Porco will direct the Data Analysis Committee with assistance from the data manager.
    The primary functions of the DAC include designing a statistical analysis plan, preparing and
    distributing randomization lists, performing data analysis, and coordinating publications and
    presentations. The Committee is responsible for obtaining data from the Data Coordinating
    Center, performing unmasked data analyses and for preparing reports for the Data and
    Safety Monitoring Committee, and at the conclusion of the study, for the Principal
    Investigator. The DAC will also be responsible for conducting the prespecified interim
    analysis (when 1/3rd and 2/3rds of the primary outcome data has been collected) and also for
    providing data to the DSMC to evaluate the stopping guidelines.

    10.6. Data Safety and Monitoring Committee (DSMC)

    The Data Safety and Monitoring Committee (DSMC) is independent and NEI-appointed, with
    experts from diverse fields including ethics, biostatistics, epidemiology, ophthalmology, and
    international health care, and include at least one member of the NEI staff as an ex officio
    member. The committee will meet for the first time before the study begins. Only after the
    DSMC reviews and approves the protocol will patients be enrolled. We anticipate the group
    will meet regularly throughout the study and review information on data quality, enrollment,
    patient retention, and study outcomes, etc. Committee members will be unmasked and
    receive reports of the data with ARM information at two interim time-points (when 1/3rd and
    2/3rds of the primary outcome has been collected). They will also receive reports of serious
    adverse events from the principal statistician, every 6 months.

    10.7. Editorial Committee

    The Editorial Committee is composed of the principal investigator Dr. Acharya and co-
    investigators Dr. Rathinam, Dr. Anuradha, Dr. Suhler, Dr. Lim, Dr. Arellanes, Dr. Goldstein,
    and Dr Dhibi. This committee has the responsibility to assist in the preparation of the
    primary study results and to review secondary manuscripts produced by the study
    investigators. They have the responsibility to ensure the completion of the primary
    manuscript (Specific Aim 1) in a timely manner and direct its submission for publication.

                                                                                                           80
First-line Antimetabolites as Steroid-sparing Treatment (FAST) Uveitis Trial   January 6, 2017 - Version 4.5
Manual of Operation and Procedures


    10.8. Study Sites

    Under the supervision of the CCC, Dr. Rathinam will direct the Indian centers, Dr. Suhler will
    direct the Oregon center, Dr. Arellanes will direct the Mexico City center, Dr. Lim will direct
    the Melbourne center, Dr. Goldstein will direct the Chicago center, Dr. Dhibi will direct the
    Riyadh center, and Dr. Acharya will direct the San Francisco center.

    10.9. Pharmacy

    The UCSF Pharmacy can handle high volume orders and provide quick turn-around timesto
    ensure a steady supply of medications over the course of the trial. They have participated in
    a number of clinical trials and will be able to package and bottle the drugs to fit the
    specifications of the study protocol. The UCSF Pharmacy will prepare all of the study
    medications for the trial.

    10.10 Study Communications

    The study coordinator at the Proctor Foundation will be responsible for ensuring that
    communication between all facilities and committees is conducted seamlessly.
    Communication between study personnel at the Proctor Foundation and investigators at
    other sites will be performed by extensive use of secure email. Much of the communication
    will be through email, but we have found that regular, international, conference calls are
    valuable and that regular, face-to-face meetings are mandatory. Members of the CCC and
    the DCC at the Proctor Foundation will visit sites every 4-6 months through the duration of
    the study to discuss details of the study and monitor quality control.




                                                                                                           81
First-line Antimetabolites as Steroid-sparing Treatment (FAST) Uveitis Trial   January 6, 2017 - Version 4.5
Manual of Operation and Procedures


11. Bibliography

 1. Nussenblatt RB. The natural history of uveitis. Int Ophthalmol 1990;14:303-8.
 2. Rothova A, Suttorp-van Schulten MS, Frits Treffers W, Kijlstra A. Causes and frequency of blindness
 in patients with intraocular inflammatory disease. Br J Ophthalmol 1996;80:332-6.
 3. Gritz DC, Wong IG. Incidence and prevalence of uveitis in Northern California; the Northern California
 Epidemiology of Uveitis Study. Ophthalmology 2004;111:491-500; discussion 500.
 4. Suttorp-Schulten MS, Rothova A. The possible impact of uveitis in blindness: a literature survey. Br J
 Ophthalmol 1996;80:844-8.
 5. Durrani OM, Meads CA, Murray PI. Uveitis: a potentially blinding disease. Ophthalmologica
 2004;218:223-36.
 6. Rothova A, Buitenhuis HJ, Meenken C, et al. Uveitis and systemic disease. Br J Ophthalmol
 1992;76:137-41.
 7. Smit RL, Baarsma GS, de Vries J. Classification of 750 consecutive uveitis patients in the Rotterdam
 Eye Hospital. Int Ophthalmol 1993;17:71-6.
 8. McCannel CA, Holland GN, Helm CJ, Cornell PJ, Winston JV, Rimmer TG. Causes of uveitis in the
 general practice of ophthalmology. UCLA Community-Based Uveitis Study Group. Am J Ophthalmol
 1996;121:35-46.
 9. Mercanti A, Parolini B, Bonora A, Lequaglie Q, Tomazzoli L. Epidemiology of endogenous uveitis in
 north-eastern Italy. Analysis of 655 new cases. Acta Ophthalmol Scand 2001;79:64-8.
 10. Das D, Bhattacharjee H, Bhattacharyya PK, et al. Pattern of uveitis in North East India: a tertiary eye
 care center study. Indian J Ophthalmol 2009;57:144-6.
 11. Rathinam SR, Namperumalsamy P. Global variation and pattern changes in epidemiology of uveitis.
 Indian J Ophthalmol 2007;55:173-83.
 12. Jabs DA, Rosenbaum JT, Foster CS, et al. Guidelines for the use of immunosuppressive drugs in
 patients with ocular inflammatory disorders: recommendations of an expert panel. Am J Ophthalmol
 2000;130:492-513.
 13. Galor A, Jabs DA, Leder HA, et al. Comparison of antimetabolite drugs as corticosteroid-sparing
 therapy for noninfectious ocular inflammation. Ophthalmology 2008;115:1826-32.
 14. Siepmann K, Huber M, Stubiger N, Deuter C, Zierhut M. Mycophenolate mofetil is a highly effective
 and safe immunosuppressive agent for the treatment of uveitis : a retrospective analysis of 106 patients.
 Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol 2006;244:788-94.
 15. Teoh SC, Hogan AC, Dick AD, Lee RW. Mycophenolate mofetil for the treatment of uveitis. Am J
 Ophthalmol 2008;146:752-60, 760 e1-3.
 16. Thorne JE, Jabs DA, Qazi FA, Nguyen QD, Kempen JH, Dunn JP. Mycophenolate mofetil therapy for
 inflammatory eye disease. Ophthalmology 2005;112:1472-7.
 17. Larkin G, Lightman S. Mycophenolate mofetil. A useful immunosuppressive in inflammatory eye
 disease. Ophthalmology 1999;106:370-4.
 18. Kilmartin DJ, Forrester JV, Dick AD. Rescue therapy with mycophenolate mofetil in refractory uveitis.
 Lancet 1998;352:35-6.
 19. Baltatzis S, Tufail F, Yu EN, Vredeveld CM, Foster CS. Mycophenolate mofetil as an
 immunomodulatory agent in the treatment of chronic ocular inflammatory disorders. Ophthalmology
 2003;110:1061-5.
 20. Choudhary A, Harding SP, Bucknall RC, Pearce IA. Mycophenolate mofetil as an
 immunosuppressive agent in refractory inflammatory eye disease. J Ocul Pharmacol Ther 2006;22:168-
 75.
 21. Bom S, Zamiri P, Lightman S. Use of methotrexate in the management of sight-threatening uveitis.
 Ocul Immunol Inflamm 2001;9:35-40.
 22. Dev S, McCallum RM, Jaffe GJ. Methotrexate treatment for sarcoid-associated panuveitis.
 Ophthalmology 1999;106:111-8.
 23. Foeldvari I, Wierk A. Methotrexate is an effective treatment for chronic uveitis associated with




                                                                                                         82
First-line Antimetabolites as Steroid-sparing Treatment (FAST) Uveitis Trial   January 6, 2017 - Version 4.5
Manual of Operation and Procedures


 juvenile idiopathic arthritis. J Rheumatol 2005;32:362-5.
 24. Gangaputra S, Newcomb CW, Liesegang TL, et al. Methotrexate for Ocular Inflammatory Diseases.
 Ophthalmology 2009.
 25. Holz FG, Krastel H, Breitbart A, Schwarz-Eywill M, Pezzutto A, Volcker HE. Low-dose methotrexate
 treatment in noninfectious uveitis resistant to corticosteroids. Ger J Ophthalmol 1992;1:142-4.
 26. Shah SS, Lowder CY, Schmitt MA, Wilke WS, Kosmorsky GS, Meisler DM. Low-dose methotrexate
 therapy for ocular inflammatory disease. Ophthalmology 1992;99:1419-23.
 27. Taylor SR, Habot-Wilner Z, Pacheco P, Lightman SL. Intraocular methotrexate in the treatment of
 uveitis and uveitic cystoid macular edema. Ophthalmology 2009;116:797-801.
 28. Daniel E, Thorne JE, Newcomb CW, et al. Mycophenolate Mofetil for Ocular Inflammation. Am J
 Ophthalmol 2009.
 29. Sobrin L, Christen W, Foster CS. Mycophenolate mofetil after methotrexate failure or intolerance in
 the treatment of scleritis and uveitis. Ophthalmology 2008;115:1416-21, 1421 e1.
 30. Jabs DA, Nussenblatt RB, Rosenbaum JT. Standardization of uveitis nomenclature for reporting
 clinical data. Results of the First International Workshop. Am J Ophthalmol 2005; 140: 509-16.
 31. Nussenblatt RB, Palestine AG, Chan CC, Roberge F. Standardization of vitreal inflammatory activity
 in intermediate and posterior uveitis. Ophthalmology 1985;92:467-71.
 32. Manual of Operations: Age Related Eye Disease Study, 2000.
 33. Sherring AK. A Practical Guide on Refraction, 1999.




                                                                                                         83
Protocol Revision History
Version
    1. Protocol 2.0, 26 September 2012
Revisions in response to feedback from the first DSMC meeting.
   • Changed the primary regression analysis to only having treatment arm and site as predictors

    2. Protocol 2.1, 1 March 2013
Changes made based on recommendations from our Indian investigators.

    •     In the inclusion criteria, changed the abnormal threshold for hemoglobin levels to be less than or
          equal to 9. Previously we had less than or equal to 10, but we would like to set the levels to be
          more relevant to the Indian population, as their normal levels are frequently between 9 and 10.
    •     Added windows for Week 2 visit to be plus or minus 3 days.
    •     Clarified on the study form completion schedule that laboratory test will be done at the week 2
          visit (we have previously indicated this in text, but not in the completion schedule).
    •     Added adverse event checklists for Week 2 in the study form completion schedule.

    3. Protocol 2.2, 1 May 2013
Changes made in light of a new reading center and responses from site investigators.

    •     Added information on a reading center we are collaborating with at University of South Florida.
    •     In the exclusion criteria, added "planning on getting surgery within the next 6 months”
    •     Added laboratory assessments for Phase I (6-12 months) at months 7, 8, 10 and 11 and updated
          the study form schedule to reflect this.
    •     Modified the wording of the thresholds for the non-serious and serious laboratory events.


    4. Protocol 2.3, 22 July 2013

Changes made to reflect the moratorium placed on research with Indian collaborators by the NIH. In
order to continue enrollment for the trial, we added new centers.

    •     Added two new study sites: the Centre for Eye Research Australia in Melbourne, Australia, and
          Asociacion Para Evitar la Ceguera in Mexico City, Mexico.
    •     Modified the study timeline to move the data collection and enrollment period back by three
          months.
    •     Added the clinicaltrials.gov NCT number.

    5. Protocol 2.4, 19 August 2013
Changes reflecting a new source of study drug and new centers.

    •     Modify the procurement source of our medications from Leiter’s pharmacy to the UCSF
          pharmacy, which can provide medication at a cheaper price. UCSF's pharmacy will purchase and
          package the medications instead.
    •     Add Northwestern University in Chicago, IL as a new site.
    •   Remove the section in the protocol that states medication bottles will be identical and will not
        carry the medication name. Instead we will have the medication name on the bottles and will keep
        them in an opaque bag during the study visit to ensure masking of the study doctors (observers).
    •   Change wording to clarify that double data entry will take place at Proctor Foundation, and all
        other sites will send secure PDFs to the study coordinator at Proctor.
    •   In the exclusion criteria, add "ocular condition (besides uveitis) anticipated to dictate treatment
        course"

    6. Protocol 2.5, 1 October 2013
Change reflecting investigator questions on the safety of using NSAIDs during the trial

    •   Changed the contraindications section on the consent form to allow use of non-steroidal anti-
        inflammatory medications in combination with methotrexate. We will change it to previously
        approved language: "Non-steroidal inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are contraindicated and should
        not be taken at the same time as high doses of methotrexate. These drugs taken together may
        cause bone marrow problems, leading to increased risk of infection, aplastic anemia and
        gastrointestinal toxicity. The dosage of methotrexate used in this study is not expected to lead to
        such problems, but you should inform your doctor if you are currently taking any NSAIDs."

    7. Protocol 2.6, 2 December 2013
Change to clarify inclusion/exclusion criteria

    •   In the exclusion criteria, added “periocular or intravitreal corticosteroid injection in the past 4
        weeks”

    8. Protocol 3.0, 24 March 2014
Changes to include reportable diseases and to allow use of an ETDRS letter chart. Collaborators found
enrollment criteria too stringent, changes to inclusion/exclusion criteria to facilitate enrollment

    •   Added the hepatitis B full panel of tests as part of the study screening. We will add information
        on reportable diseases to our consent form (Hepatitis B and HIV)
    •   Changed the vision testing protocol from Tumbling E charts to ETDRS letter charts.
    •   In the inclusion criteria, changed the duration of a recently failed steroid taper from the past 14
        days to the past 4 weeks
    •   In the exclusion criteria, changed the time limit for abnormal AST, ALT, and CBC labs from
        within 14 days of enrollment to within 4 weeks of enrollment
    •   In the exclusion criteria, changed the time limit for abnormal tuberculin skin test, or interferon-
        gamma release assay, a chest radiograph, RPR/VDRL, FTA-ABS, or other treponemal tests,
        Hepatitis B surface antigen and Hepatitis C antibody tests from within 60 days of enrollment to
        within 90 days of enrollment

    9. Protocol 3.1, 8 May 2014
Changes to broaden enrollment criteria. New criteria were devised in a lab meeting within the Proctor
group and then refined at an investigators' meeting where all the collaborating site PIs were present.

    •   Changed the enrollment criteria from:
        o   Active inflammation within the last 90 days, defined by the presence of any of the
            following (in at least one eye) according to SUN criteria:

                            ≥ 2+ anterior chamber cells
                            ≥ 2+ vitreous haze
                            active retinal or choroidal lesions

        o   At least one of the following criteria must be met before or at enrollment:

                            1.) Active inflammation after 4 weeks of high-dose (1mg/kg prednisone
                            equivalent) corticosteroid treatment or 4+ weeks after periocular or
                            intravitreal corticosteroid injection
                            2.) Treatment with oral corticosteroids resulting in a reduction of
                            inflammation, followed by an increase in inflammation (of at least 1
                            grade in anterior chamber cells or vitreous haze or a change of non-active
                            to active retinal/choroidal lesions) when corticosteroid is tapered, in the 4
                            weeks prior to enrollment
                            3.) Known uveitic condition* necessitating corticosteroid-sparing
                            immunosuppressive treatment according to SUN criteria**

To:
• Active inflammation within the last 180 days, defined by the presence of any of the following (in
    at least one eye) according to SUN criteria:
                             ≥ 2+ anterior chamber cells
                             ≥ 2+ vitreous haze
                             active retinal or choroidal lesions

         o At least one of the following criteria must be met before or at enrollment:
                            1.) Active inflammation after 4 weeks of high-dose (1mg/kg prednisone
                            equivalent) oral corticosteroid treatment
                            2.) Treatment with oral corticosteroids resulting in a reduction of
                            inflammation, followed by an increase in inflammation (of at least 1
                            grade in anterior chamber cells or vitreous haze or a change of non-active
                            to active retinal/choroidal lesions) when corticosteroid is tapered, in the
                            180 days prior to enrollment
                            3.) Treatment with ³10mg/day oral prednisone or equivalent over at least
                            the past 90 days prior to enrollment
                            4.) Long-acting corticosteroid injection 4 weeks to 180 days prior to
                            enrollment
                            5.) One of the following uveitic conditions necessitating corticosteroid-
                            sparing immunosuppressive treatment:
                                          • Behcet’s disease with posterior segment involvement
                                          • Multifocal choroiditis with panuveitis
                                          • Serpiginous choroidopathy
                                          • Birdshot retinochoroidopathy
                                          • Diffuse retinal vasculitis
                                          • VKH with bullous serous retinal detachments and/or
                                              choroidal detachments
                                              •   Sympathetic ophthalmia

    10. Protocol 3.2, 29 July 2014
Changes made to add a new center.

    •   Added King Khaled Eye Specialist Hospital in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia as another enrollment center

    11. Protocol 3.3, 12 December 2014
Changes made to clarify enrollment criteria and steroid taper.

    •   Clarified that goal of steroid taper in Phase I is to maintain at 7.5 mg/day of oral prednisone, not
        lower (subject to clinician’s judgment)
    •   In inclusion criteria, clarified that Acute Vogt- Koyanagi-Harada syndrome (VKH) that is active
        for at least 4 weeks is qualifies a patient as being in need of immunosuppressive therapy for the
        purposes of the trial.
    •   Changed timeline of initial assessments. Because the eyes of patients who visit an
        ophthalmologist and begin taking prednisone often are quiet by the time of the next visit, and
        because this trial requires inflammation at enrollment, we will allow the enrollment eye exam and
        visual acuity assessment to take place up to seven days before the baseline visit date.

    12. Protocol 3.4, 13 January 2015

Changes to clarify inclusion/exclusion criteria

    •   In exclusion criteria, removed HIV from list of specimens that must be collected for laboratory
        measurements within 60 days prior to enrollment. “Evidence of active tuberculosis, HIV
        infection, syphilis, or hepatitis B or C” remains an exclusion criterion, however, HIV testing is
        per investigator discretion based upon risk factors discovered upon examination.

    13. Protocol 3.5, 6 April 2015

Cleaned up erratum in typing and references

    •   Changed all mentions of “qd” to “daily” for clarity
    •   Standardized all “bid” to “BID”
    •   Clarified that every site does NEI-VFQ but Indian sites also do IND-VFQ
    •   Changed “Davis scale” to preferred name of Miami scale
    •   Clarified that injection for persistent ME allowed in first 90 days of follow-up applies to both
        Phase I and II.
    •   Specified NEI vitreous haze grading scale for assessment of vitreous haze component of
        inflammation at enrollment
    •   Corrected page numbers in table of contents
    •   Corrected old references to 14 day and 60 day lab result windows to 4 week and 90 days,
        respectively.

    14. Protocol 4.0, 30 April 2015
Changes to reflect

    •   Updated data entry staff location to “Madurai” from “Proctor”
    •   Removed month 6 from Phase 1 months 6-12 window table
    •   Corrected a typo on page 70 section 7.4: “recruitment reports four” to “recruitment reports for”


    15. Protocol 4.1, 26 June 2015

Updated exclusion criteria to facilitate enrollment based on a discussion from an Investigator’s Meeting
on May 2, 2015 and discussions with the DSMC.

    •   Amend the current exclusion criterion that excludes patients with prior immunosuppressive
        therapy (IMT) other than corticosteroids to allow patients who had been on IMT more than 12
        months prior to enrollment without previous adverse events and to exclude those known to have
        had inefficacy, safety, or tolerability issues with methotrexate or mycophenolate mofetil or prior
        biologic therapy use. The exclusion criteria previously referenced "prior immunosuppressive
        therapy other than prednisone" but now references "corticosteroids." Prednisone is the most
        common corticosteroid used to treat noninfectious uveitis. However, there are other forms of
        corticosteroids available and we wanted to be inclusive. Since in practice use of another type of
        corticosteroid other than prednisone does not affect a patients ability to start IMT, so we wanted
        to be inclusive and wanted to be sure we did exclude patients if they had been on another form of
        a corticosteroid. The exclusion criteria was then changed from:
            o Prior immunosuppressive therapy other than prednisone



        To:

              o   Prior immunosuppressive therapy other than corticosteroids in the past 12 months
              o   Prior intolerability or safety issues with methotrexate or mycophenolate mofetil
              o   Prior failure to control ocular or other inflammation using methotrexate or
                  mycophenolate mofetil
              o   Prior biologic therapy at any time

    •   Changed the required timeline of turning in forms to data entry 10 days instead of 7 days

    16. Protocol 4.2, 21 September 2015

Changes to study sites

    •   Added Aravind Eye Hospital – Pondicherry as new study site


    17. Protocol 4.3, 2 October 2015

Changes to clarify protocol

    •   Added back in Zeiss Cirrus in OCT procedures
    •   Changed wording for Tumbling E (not “alternative” protocol) in visual acuity procedures

    18. Protocol 4.4, 26 February 2016

Clarified requirements for lab tests

    •   Added clarification on lab-related adverse event thresholds for treatment failure due to safety in
        Section 2.5.2: “If lab results remain at or above the threshold of a non-serious adverse event for
        28 days, this is classified as a serious adverse event and treatment failure will immediately be
        declared.”
    •   Clarified that the CD4 lab test is required only at AEH, KKESH and UCSF sites at Baseline,
        Month 3, 6, and 12 (Section 4.3.4, 4.4.2, 5.6)

    19. Protocol 4.5, 6 January 2017

Changed randomization protocol and clarified eligibility for phase II.

    •   Removed randomization list holders from Section 2.4 and added explanation of new process to
        randomize patients with secure online REDCap database. Study coordinators will perform
        randomizations on the online database and emergency contact personnel will have access to the
        database in case of an emergency to look up treatment assignments for current patients who have
        been randomized.
    •   Added a statement (Section 4.1.2) instructing investigators to contact the coordinating center if
        they believe a patient would benefit from being treated in Phase II of the trial but is not able to
        enter Phase II within the two-week window. In exceptional cases, permission may be granted for
        the patient to enter Phase II outside of the two-week window.
    •   Removed Clinical Eye Exam form and Secondary Clinical Eye Exam Form from the Baseline
        Phase II column of the study form completion schedule. These forms/assessments will no longer
        be required if a patient enters Phase II on a different day than the Phase I Treatment Failure visit.
    •   Added a paragraph explaining the process for randomizing patients using the online REDCap
        database as Section 4.3.2
