1. Twelve-month endpoint for success. We assume an additional loss of 5% between 6 and 12
months (that is, in addition to the 10% already lost to follow-up in the first six months). We
expect approximately 78% power to detect a 20% difference in success rates at the 12-
month endpoint.
2. Time to corticosteroid sparing control of inflammation. For sample size planning, we use the
approximate formula given in Friedman et al (2010) for the number in each group:

N=
   (Z + Z ) ( ( ) + ( ))
               2
                    C           I

            ( I − C)    2


where   C is the hazard in the methotrexate group,    I is the hazard in the mycophenolate mofetil
                            2
                        u
group, and (u ) =
                     1 − e −uT
where T is the censoring time (6 months). Previous studies suggest a median success time of
approximately 3.5 months for mycophenolate mofetil.12 Assuming a 10% loss to follow-up, 108
subjects in each group provides 80% power to detect a difference of 2.47 months in the
expected difference. (Note: C is log(2)/3.5 mo. for this calculation.) We assume an alpha of
0.05 (two sided).
3. Change in BSCVA. For sample size planning, we assume a T-test comparing change scores
between the two drugs, assuming a standard deviation of the change in visual acuity of 6.5
letters.13, 14 The sample size of 108 will provide approximately 80% power to detect 2.63 letters
of difference in the change score. In other words, we expect to have 80% power to detect
whether mycophenolate mofetil yields 2.63 letters more of improvement than methotrexate,
and we will have greater power to detect greater differences. The power formula is provided
in Chow et al and is computationally implemented in R in the function power.t.test (which
we used).15
4. Quality of life. For a power calculation, we consider the SF-36 questionnaire, which has two
scales, the MCS and the PCS. The raw score standard deviation will be assumed to be 8.4 points;
we assume a correlation between baseline and six months of 0.6. 16, 17 Assuming that the baseline
score will “explain” roughly 36% of the variance allows us to assume a corrected raw score
standard deviation of 6.72 in a simplified calculation in which we treat the analysis as a T-test.
The same power calculation formula used in (3) above reveals that our sample size provides
approximately 80% power to detect a raw score difference of roughly 2.57 between the two
treatment groups. This difference is roughly comparable to the small difference in scores found
between intermediate uveitis patients and the general population16, a difference we believe to be
more than sufficient to detect clinically significant results. Note that the population mean of this
score is standardized to 50 on 0 to 100 scale. Similar analyses will be conducted for the vision
related quality of life (i.e. NEI-VFQ-25 and the IND-VFQ).
5. Rate of discontinuation. Based on retrospective studies, we expect approximately 13% to
discontinue methotrexate due to tolerability and 5% to discontinue due to safety (laboratory
abnormalities or other serious adverse events). We expect approximately 4% to discontinue
mycophenolate mofetil due to tolerability and 5% to discontinue due to safety. 12, 18-20 For the
purpose of the power calculation, we assume 10% loss to follow-up and consider only the




9 March 2017                                                                                     24
comparison of discontinuation due to tolerability. We use the power formula given in
Freedman et al (p. 104) to calculate a power of 61% for this comparison.3
6. Macular edema. Previous studies suggest approximately 38% of individuals with uveitis will
manifest macular edema.21 We have approximately 80% power to detect a difference of a
factor of two in the final proportion of macular edema (19% vs 38%).
7. Macular thickness. A sample size of 108 (before loss to follow-up) provides approximately
80% power to detect a 65 micron difference between the two treatment groups, assuming a
standard deviation of 160 microns in the final macular thickness. 22 This analysis is quite
conservative, since a difference of 100 microns between these two groups is consistent with
previous studies. Moreover, adjustment for variance explained by the baseline thickness (i.e. the
use of a smaller effective standard deviation) would yield a still higher effective power.22, 23
Specific Aim 2.
In the primary comparison of Specific Aim 2, we will estimate the effectiveness of rescue
therapy, controlling for treatment group and reason for failure.
    The primary analysis is (a) to estimate the probability of success on mycophenolate mofetil
following failure of methotrexate, with 95% confidence intervals, and (b) to estimate the
probability of success on methotrexate following failure of mycophenolate mofetil, with 95%
confidence intervals.
    These results will also be reported by reason for failure of the first drug, by categories of (i)
failure because of inability to tolerate the first drug, (ii) failure of the first drug to achieve control
(efficacy), or (iii) failure due to safety.
    One analysis of interest is to compare the success rates in these two groups, and we include
the sample size considerations for this analysis below. For two drugs (mycophenolate mofetil
and methotrexate), we conduct the sample size planning as follows (denoting two drugs simply as
A and B). For treatment group j=0,1 (0 coding drug B rescue in patients failing drug A therapy,
                                                                                       (     )
1 coding drug A rescue in patients failing drug B therapy), we expect n j = N 0 r1 1- s j r2 subjects
to be available for Specific Aim 2 (where N0 is the number of subjects randomized to each
treatment, r1 is the retention fraction in Specific Aim 1 (not lost to follow-up in Specific Aim 1),
sj is the expected success fraction for patients for initial treatment j, and r2 is the retention
fraction in Specific Aim 2.
     Thus, the number of available patients for Specific Aim 2 are highly dependent on the results
from Specific Aim 1. Scientifically, the result of rescue therapy is important regardless of the
result in Aim 1. More power will be available for the primary comparison in Specific Aim 2 if
treatment in Specific Aim 1 yielded relatively high and similar failure rates for both drugs.
However, even if success rates are very different in Aim 1, the descriptive analyses will still
provide important information to guide decision-making on second-line treatment.
     Here, N0=108, and r1 is assumed to be 0.9 (10% loss to follow-up). For planning Specific
Aim 2, we assume a success rate of 60% for patients treated with drug A Specific Aim 1, and a
success rate of 40% for those treated with drug B. This is a conservative estimate of the
difference expected based on retrospective studies 12, 18-20 and consistent with the pilot study.
Finally, we are assuming an additional 5% loss to follow-up during Specific Aim 2 (in addition to




9 March 2017                                                                                           25
the 10% already lost), so that r2=0.95. The results are summarized in the following table, where
the number enrolling does not include loss to follow-up, and the “expected complete” column has
taken loss to follow-up into account (njk).
    We anticipate the following:
                Initial/Second Treatment           Expected         Expected to
                                              Enrollment SA/2 Complete SA/2
                            B/A                      58.3               55.4
                            A/B                      38.9               36.9
    Thus, we expect a total of n1=58 patients (rounding down) to have failed one first-line
therapy to be enrolled in rescue therapy. Similarly, we expect n0=38 patients to be enrolled in the
other rescue regimen.
    Previous observational studies suggest a 42% success rate of mycophenolate mofetil in
methotrexate-failing patients,.24 A simple power analysis for comparing these proportions may
be found from the formula (see Chao et al, p. 87):15


                        p1 − p0
    1−   =                                   − z /2
                 p0 (1 − p0 ) p1 (1 − p1 )
                             +
                     n0            n1
where p0 is the probability of success with methotrexate rescue following mycophenolate mofetil
failure, p1 the probability of success with mycophenolate mofetil rescue following methotrexate
failure, and is the cumulative distribution function of the standard normal distribution. These
assumptions yield a power of 0.87 if the rate of success with methotrexate rescue is 0.15. We
have approximately 80% power to detect a difference of 17% if the probability of success with
mycophenolate mofetil is 0.42.
    A power table for sensitivity analysis is provided. We chose selected scenarios of potential
interest to show the wide range of scenarios for which we have sufficient power. The main
scenario is the first row of the table; in other rows, we varied the number of patients or the
success fractions for the first drug used. In particular, the results are not sensitive to the efficacy
difference found in Specific Aim 1.




   Power Table for Specific Aim 2

Drug A, then         Drug B, then             Success            Success            Approximate
Drug B               Drug A                   probability of     probability of     Power
(number)             (number)                 Drug B in          Drug A in
                                              patients failing   patients failing
                                              Drug A             Drug B




9 March 2017                                                                                        26
58                38                0.42               0.15               87%
58                38                0.42               0.17               80%
58                38                0.15               0.42               83%
58                76                0.42               0.15               94%
116               38                0.42               0.15               96%
40                40                0.42               0.15               80%
58                38                0.40               0.15               80%
    To summarize, the anticipated number of patients from Specific Aim 1 (58 enrolled in in
Drug A, and 38 in Drug B) should provide approximately 80% power to detect a difference
of 25% between the two groups, assuming a success probability of 42% and a two-tailed
alpha of 0.05.

   Secondary Outcomes in Specific Aim 2.
   1. Confidence intervals for the probability of success will be reported for each rescue group
      and anatomic location (i.e. Patients receiving methotrexate or mycophenolate mofetil as
      first treatment versus receiving it as their second, rescue treatment). Note that in the event
      that there are insufficient numbers of patients available in one arm of Specific Aim 2 (for
      instance, far fewer patients available for methotrexate rescue than we anticipate),
      confidence intervals for estimating the proportion of success can still be computed for the
      anatomic locations in the other arm.
   2. We propose, for each rescue group, to conduct logistic regression using success as an
      outcome, and reason for failure of the first drug as a categorical covariate (safety,
      efficacy, tolerability). An overall likelihood ratio test for each will be conducted, with an
      alpha of 0.05/2=0.025.
   3. An additional comparison will be undertaken between first-line and rescue patients with
      both methotrexate and mycophenolate mofetil.
   4. Additionally, the same secondary outcomes assessed in Aim 1 will be analyzed using
      similar methods.

3.5 Missing data and loss to follow-up
        Values of the primary study endpoint (treatment success at six months) cannot be analyzed
when the individual is lost to follow-up. We distinguish information which is missing because of
possible progression of the underlying condition we wish to treat from information which is lost
for some other reason. Earlier, we discussed methods for handling missing values for specific
uveitis fields in individuals. The discussion in this section applies only to loss to follow-up or to
dropping out of the study. As emphasized in Carpenter & Kenward (2007), “there can be no
universal analysis when data are missing”. Our purpose is to vary the assumptions as well as the
methods, to establish that the estimates of the treatment effect are robust as such assumptions are
varied.




9 March 2017                                                                                      27
    Our priority is the preservation of the intent to treat principle. We propose to report the results
from all of the following methods:
     1. The use of regression-based multiple imputation, based on all observed data for the
          patient.
     2. Use of longitudinal generalized linear mixed effects regression, with visit as a covariate,
          and including a random effect for each person and for each eye within each person, using
          all the available measurements on each individual
     3. Sensitivity analysis in which missing final outcome values are assigned success or
          failure, and the analysis conducted conditional on these assignments.
     4. Analysis of complete cases only (individuals for which the six month follow-up is
          available)
However, we are proposing that method 4 (complete case analysis) be considered the primary
outcome, based on recommendation by the DSMB. All other analyses are to be considered
supplementary.
    Multiple imputation will be conducted as follows. The following information will be used as
regression covariates: (i) age, (ii) gender, (iii) inflammation assessments at all prior time points
(anterior cells, vitreous haze, and retinal/choroidal lesions), (iv) steroid dose, (v) anatomic
location (by patient, classified as anterior/intermediate or posterior/panuveitis), (vi) anatomic
location by history, (vii) maximum steroid dose within the 90 days prior to enrollment, (vii)
steroid dose at enrollment prior to randomization or study-related intervention, (ix) country, and
(x) site within country. Any additional covariates must be prespecified. A regression model for
the missing outcome information will be derived; specifically, a cross-validated procedure to
yield the best prediction based on complete subjects will be derived, and ten multiple imputations
will be derived from it. The formula in Little and Rubin25 will be used to derive the overall test
statistic. All replications will be recorded and reported.
    An alternative method (which we propose to used for sensitivity analysis) is hot deck multiple
imputation (with ten replications).25 Note that treatment assignment would never be missing. For
definiteness, we choose the recursive random partitioning hot deck method used in the R package
rrp with the default settings (command rrp.impute).
    The possibility of data-driven modeling may render multiple imputation of an outcome
variable undesirable to many reviewers as a primary outcome. An alternative method is to model
the treatment success of person i at visit j, Yij, using generalized linear mixed models, with
covariates being site, country, treatment assignment, country-assignment interaction, visit (1:6),
and visit-drug interaction (method 2 above). Note that additional statistical modeling will be
reported, in which we (a) omit visit-drug interaction, and/or country assignment interaction, (b)
add visit-country interaction, or (c) add age or gender as covariates.
    We believe carrying forward last observations to be particularly unhelpful in this study,
because all patients are on a prescribed steroid taper. We also believe that differential loss to
follow-up of well performing patients on one drug or the other could falsely make the poorer
drug appear to give more favorable results, so that the complete case analysis must be interpreted
with caution.




9 March 2017                                                                                        28
3.5.1 Injections
If a patient receives a corticosteroid injection 90 days after enrollment, it is not possible to truly
assess the study drug’s ability to manage inflammation at the Month 6 visit. Therefore, as a
senstivity analysis, the primary outcome for these patients will be considered by the
inflammation levels at the time of the injection. If the patient received the injection because of
uncontrolled inflammation, the patient will be considered a treatment failure. If the patient met
the definition of treatment success at the time of the injection, the patient will be considered a
treatment success.

3.6 Pooling across sites
Approximately three-fourths of patients are expected to come from the Aravind sites, which are
in the same hospital network in the geographic region serving the same patient population.
UCSF/Proctor and Oregon/Casey serve slightly different populations, although we expect fewer
cases overall in the U.S. sites.

3.7 Multiple comparisons
An alpha of 0.05 will be used for the primary analysis of Specific Aims 1 and the primary
analysis of Specific Aim 2. The prespecified subgroup analyses of Specific Aim 1 will be
conducted at an alpha level of 0.05 (as stated above) as well. However, the use of an overall test
prior to subgroup analysis protects the overall type I error rate for the primary outcome, a
procedure we apply within the analysis of each secondary outcome as well.

3.8 Interim Monitoring
The study will be monitored by a Data Safety Monitoring Committee (DSMC) appointed by the
National Eye Institute. There will be one in-person meeting a year and additional phone calls as
deemed necessary. The DSMC will be unmasked and received reports with information by
treatment arm from the principal statistician.

3.9 Accrual Rate
Based on enrollment rates in previous trials and preliminary data (see proposal for details) we
anticipate enrolling 7-8 subjects per month at all sites, for a total enrollment period of 2.5 years.
If we conservatively assume we may only accrue 25% fewer subjects per month, then completion
of enrollment would occur 3 years and 3 months after the start of the trial.
     We will establish monthly recruitment goals for each of the sites, taking into careful
consideration local holidays which may cause recruitment rates to drop at certain times of the
year. Careful monitoring of the recruitment process will enable us to determine whether one of
our sites may be falling behind in recruitment, precursory to further investigation and
intervention. Standard graphs of realized cumulative recruitment together with cumulative
recruitment goals for (a) the study as a whole, and (b) for each of the four sites will be prepared,
and provided to the Data and Safety Monitoring Committee at each meeting (or more frequently,
if requested).




9 March 2017                                                                                         29
3.10 Interim Analysis
We propose to conduct two interim analyses, at approximately one-third and at approximately
two-thirds of the way through the study. The exact fractions will be determined by availability of
data and timing of DSMB meetings. We plan to examine the primary outcome variable using the
same statistical model we plan for the final analysis. A flexible alpha spending function is
specified in Section 6.

3.10.1 Stopping rules
Stopping rules for benefit, harm, and futility are discussed in Section 6.2. These rules or
guidelines would be determined at the first meeting of the DSMC (see Section 6.2).

3.10.2 Execution of interim analysis
The principal statistician (TP) will conduct the interim analysis in an unmasked manner, subject
to independent statistical review by the DSMC. Quality assurance will be conducted by database
manager WE.

3.11 Final Analyses
The Primary Aim 1 analysis (and secondary objectives), identified in this Statistical Analysis
Plan will be performed when all patients complete their 6 month assessment and the window
period is completed. All other analyses will be completed after the 12 month visit for Phase I or 6
month visit for Phase II and window periods are complete.

3.12 Software
The standard software program R version 2.12 or higher (http://www.r-project.org)
for the MacIntosh OS X will be used for all descriptive and inferential analyses.

4 Analysis Populations
4.1 Summary
The following analysis populations are planned for this study:
  • The screening population, which is to include all patients who are screened for
      participation in the trial.
  • The safety population, which is to include all patients who receive any amount of planned
      study medication (mycophenolate mofetil or methotrexate).
  • The intent-to-treat efficacy population, which is to include all patients who are
      randomized. This is the primary population for the efficacy analyses.
  • The per-protocol efficacy population, which is to include all patients in the intent-to-treat
      efficacy population, excluding patients with any of the following: (a) major protocol
      deviations, or (b) noncompliance with study medications (less than 50% of the study drug
      received by self report or pill counts at study visits).




9 March 2017                                                                                    30
4.2 Major protocol deviations
The incidence of deviations from the inclusion and exclusion criteria will be summarized using
counts and percentages, and the treatment groups compared for the overall frequency of
deviations using a 2 N Fisher’s exact test. Similar deviations will be grouped into general
categories of deviations for a more condensed summary. A listing of deviations by participant
will also be produced. Any major deviations from the protocol will be listed and/or summarized,
including, but not limited to, participants who:
   • never received study drug
   • were subsequently found to be ineligible for the study
   • never returned for a follow-up visit
   • have follow-up visits outside the prescribed visit window
   • received a corticosteroid injection >90 days after enrollment for macular edema or at any
       time for inflammation
The number and percentage of randomized participants actually receiving study medication,
permanently discontinuing study drug (subdivided by reason), and receiving injections >90 days
past enrollment will be summarized. A summary of study participants randomized by site will
also be provided. Treatment groups will be compared for the proportion and reason for study
drug discontinuation using the chi-square test. A summary of participant status at the end of the
study period will also be generated with categories including lost to follow-up.

5 Data Collection and Quality Assurance
5.1 Quality assurance and security
Data collection forms, training, security, and quality assurance are discussed in the Manual of
Operations for the FAST Treatment Trial.

5.2 Analysis sets
Data sets for analysis will be produced at the Proctor central site by database manager WE. Each
will be a Microsoft Excel® worksheet containing a single header line whose variable names
match the Access database. Each analysis set will be in the form of a rectangular table in which
each column corresponds to a single variable and each row to an observation. All missing values
will be coded explicitly using the string NA (as used in the R software). Codes for categorical
variables (such as 1 for male, and 2 for female) will be avoided in favor of self-documenting
character strings (such as Male, Female) whenever possible. Automated checks will be made to
ensure consistency and that each variable in the analysis set has in-range values (protecting
against negative ages, spelling errors in categorical factors, and similar errors).
    A detailed codebook will be prepared, containing for each variable, (a) the form from which
the variable derived, (b) the text of the question, (c) all possible values for the variable, and (d)
summary statistics for the variable. Note that all codes and character strings that represent
categorical factors will be clearly defined in the codebook. Units for each continuous variable




9 March 2017                                                                                      31
(e.g. central subfield thickness, logMAR) will be unambiguously indicated for each variable.
Each release of the analysis set will be accompanied by the corresponding version of the
codebook. Version numbering with dates will be strictly observed. Standard report-generation
software included with the R statistical and data analysis package will be used to ensure
consistency of the codebook and analysis set at all times.

5.3 Data monitoring reports
Data monitoring reports will be prepared based on analysis data sets. These will be prepared
using report-generation software. Monitoring reports will include (a) recruitment reports for each
site, (b) compliance reports, (c) retention reports, and (d) data quality reports. These will be
reviewed at the central site on a monthly basis, and communicated to the study sites on a monthly
basis.

6 Human Subjects
6.1 Summary of final dispositions
All subjects who provide informed consent will be accounted for in this study. The frequency of
subjects in each population will be presented. We will also present the frequency of subjects in
each subgroup, the frequency of withdrawal and loss to follow-up, and any major protocol
violations.

6.2 Data and Safety Monitoring Committee
6.2.1 Scope
A Data and Safety Monitoring Committee (DSMC) will be empaneled by the NEI. We propose
that this committee consist of 5-7 individuals, and should include (a) uveitis specialists, (b) an
independent biostatistician, (c) a bioethicist, and (d) a member to protect the interest of the Indian
population. The committee will meet in person at least once per year. Ad hoc meetings as needed
may also be convened. All study protocols will be subject to review and approval by Institutional
Review Boards at UCSF, Oregon and Aravind, and by the DSMC.
    The Data and Safety Monitoring Committee will meet to review the interim efficacy data
when primary outcome data are available on approximately one third of the study subjects—
approximately 6 months after the 72nd subject has been enrolled in the trial (as discussed above
in Section 3.10), and when data are available on approximately 2/3 of subjects. The DSMC will
make one of the following recommendations:
   • Continue the trial without modifications
   • Continue the trial with study modifications
   • Terminate enrollment or treatment in the trial because of safety concerns
   • Terminate enrollment or treatment in the trial because of efficacy




9 March 2017                                                                                       32
6.2.2 Meetings
All in-person and teleconference meetings of the DSMC and study personnel will consist of (a)
“open” sessions, which may be attended as needed by masked study personnel, and (b) “closed”
sessions, which may only be attended by unmasked study personnel (TP, WE, TL), and (c)
“closed” sessions attended only by the DSMC personnel. Care will be taken so that no treatment
assignments, data which would allow treatment assignments to be determined, or outcome data
based on treatment assignments will be revealed during the open sessions.
    The DSMC will be unmasked. Closed reports will tabulate baseline covariates, adverse
events, and outcomes by treatment assignment and study site. Written closed reports will always
use the labels Treatment A and Treatment B for increased information security.
However, the DSMC will know which drug corresponds to which label.
    Interim reports for the DSMC will be prepared by the central Proctor site (TP). These reports
will include (a) recruitment overall, and by study site, (b) compliance, and (c) retention. The
reports will also list study outcomes, and all adverse outcomes, including deaths. The DSMC will
determine the database closure dates for each report in advance; archival copies of the (a) main
REDCap database, and (b) study analysis file as they exist at the time of each report will be
maintained.
    All reports will be sent using secure email to the members of the DSMC two weeks prior to
each meeting (or more, if desired by the DSMC).
    Each printed (hard copy) interim report will be labeled clearly as confidential, bound so that
the contents are not visible from the outside, and labeled with the name of each person authorized
to receive it. Reports will be kept in possession of WE and TP and only delivered in person or by
encrypted email; reports not delivered due to absences are to be shredded. In addition, redacted
versions of the interim reports will be prepared which contain no masked study information, and
which are suitable for restricted distribution to other personnel on an as-needed basis. All hard
copies will be destroyed at the end of each meeting, except for a copy to be kept in a locked file
cabinet accessible only to TP and WE.

6.2.3 Decisions
The DSMC will make decisions with the benefit of prespecified decision guidelines. These
guidelines will be agreed upon at the initial meeting, and are expected to include (a) safety, (b)
efficacy, (c) clinical importance, (d) effect of baseline covariates, or (e) validity.
    Benefits. Unmasked interim analyses (See Section 3.10) will be conducted to determine
whether or not sufficient evidence has accumulated to justify stopping the trial because one
treatment is clearly superior (and therefore should be extended to all future cases). The guidelines
for efficacy will use group sequential boundaries for judging the statistical significance of the
primary outcome measure. The Lan and DeMets flexible alpha spending approach will be used.
    Early discontinuation in this trial has the following disadvantages. First, early discontinuation
will make it more difficult to assess homogeneity of study sites. In this trial, where the majority
of planned enrollment is not from the US, discontinuation at time t=1/3 for instance would occur
when only 15 American patients had been enrolled (under our enrollment projections), and at
t=2/3, only 30 American patients. Reflection on these small numbers of American patients may




9 March 2017                                                                                      33
limit the adoption of the results of the trial. Second, early discontinuation reduces the power to
assess the secondary aims of Specific Aim 1, and for Specific Aim 2. For these reasons, we
propose to use conservative stopping rules.
   We propose to use a Hwang-Shih-deCani alpha spending function of the form


                                          *
                                                   a (1- e- gt )
                                        a (t ) =
                                                    1- e- g
with chosen to be equal to -5.623626 exactly. This value was chosen to make the alpha at t=1/3
approximately equal to 0.001. The resulting alpha at t=2/3 is approximately 0.0075. The R
package gsDesign (v. 2.7-04 or higher) will be used for selected analyses.
    The proposed plan is to have two interim looks, at approximately t=1/3 and t=2/3 (one third
and two-thirds through the study), with the specific fractions to depend on the total available data
at face to face DSMB meetings.
    The use of a flexible alpha-spending function protects the 0.05 alpha level of the overall trial
while allowing for additional interim analyses for efficacy (if needed), without specifying the
number and timing of the analyses at the start of the study. We note that the alpha spending
function, including the value of cannot be changed once the trial has begun.
    Harm. Stopping for harm will be done at the judgment of the DSMC. Several endpoints will
be examined, including serious adverse events such as significant and sustained laboratory
abnormalities as described in the protocol, or mortality. While the analysis would consider
maldistribution of predictive factors such as age, it is recognized that ethical considerations
require careful considerations of statistical tests as well as qualitative judgments in the light of
experience. Any additional analyses required by the DSMC will be conducted by TP and WE, as
needed.
    Note that serious adverse events (SAE) are reported directly to the medical monitor (TM)
within 24 hours of the time the study site learns of them, and the medical monitor will
subsequently pass this information on to the DSMC Chair. The medical monitor will receive
notification of the event, the timing of the event, a medical narrative from the study site, the site
location, and the patient identification number. The statistician will report the study treatment
assignment to the DSMC Chair if deemed necessary by the DSMC. If use of either drug use
clearly results in an unacceptable increase in the risk of treatment failures, then the study will be
stopped. It is difficult to fully prescribe boundaries for monitoring safety because there need not
be strong evidence to discontinue the study if it appears that the treatment is harmful.
    Futility. Early discontinuation due to the unlikeliness of significant findings conditional on
interim results would prevent the analysis of Specific Aim 2 and of the secondary aims of
Specific Aim 1. No stopping rules based on futility or conditional power calculations are
included in the trial plan.

7 Safety and tolerability
The analysis of safety in this study will include summaries of the following:




9 March 2017                                                                                      34
   • Exposure
   • Adverse events
       • Adverse events and serious adverse events (including deaths)
       • Adverse events leading to withdrawal
       • Any deaths

7.1 Exposure
Individuals are assumed to have exposure to the drug corresponding to the arm to which they
were randomized.

7.2 Adverse Events
7.2.1 Individual events
Adverse event reporting procedures are described fully in the MOP. Non-serious adverse events
(not requiring narrative form) are described in the MOP (Section 6.1). Serious non-ocular or
ocular adverse events (which must be reported within 24 hours and which require a narrative
form) are described in the MOP (Section 6.2). Adverse events will be reported in all
presentations and publications according to Consort guidelines.
The proportion of subjects with safety-related events will be compared using logistic regression,
using treatment assignment and age as predictors, and including enrollment site as a random
effect. Descriptive tables of the number and frequency of adverse events will be broken down by
treatment arm, age, gender, and known comorbidities. We will report total adverse events and
serious adverse events, cross-tabulated by whether the adverse events were anticipated or
unanticipated and by whether or not the adverse event led to discontinuation of medication.
In addition, we will compare the rate of each of the adverse events during the follow-up period
using Poisson regression, which can take into account multiple instances of adverse events within
a single subject. Age will be included as a predictor as well as treatment group, and enrollment
site will be included as a random effect.
The additional statistical analysis of adverse events we describe here is undertaken strictly to
provide additional insight which may be useful to the DSMC and investigators. Interpretation of
such findings must reflect the fact that unanticipated adverse events may occur and that we may
have insufficient power to make inferences between the arms when considering rare events. Note
that adverse events contribute to the outcome of the trial and specific analyses have been defined
earlier.

7.2.2 Pooled adverse events
Adverse events will be analyzed according to four main categories:
  • Proportion of subjects with any ocular adverse event
  • Proportion of subjects with any serious ocular adverse event
  • Proportion of subjects with any systemic adverse event




9 March 2017                                                                                   35
  • Proportion of subjects with any systemic serious adverse event

The proportion of subjects with these events will be compared between the arms using Fisher’s
Exact Test. Poisson or negative binomial regression will be applied to compare the rates of
overall adverse events, including recurrent events.

8 Reporting conventions
  • All tables and data listings will be presented in landscape orientation, unless presented as
    part of the text of the final report.
  • Figures will be presented in landscape orientation, unless the information is substantially
    easier to interpret in portrait orientation.
  • Direct annotation of figures will be preferred to legends. All figures with more than one
    variable or item will contain either direct annotation or legends. All annotation will be
    unambiguously identifiable as such.
  • Color will be used in figures only when needed to enhance clarity of communication. All
    color schemes will be evaluated for visual clarity for individuals with diminished color
    vision. All color encodings will be identified. Redundant encodings (such as the use of
    different plot symbols or line dash patterns) will be used in addition to color, so that all
    figures are interpretable after monochrome reproduction at 100 dots per inch. All dash
    patterns and line widths will be adequate to be distinguishable after monochrome
    reproduction at 100 dots per inch. Any distinction between plot symbols (circles, filled
    circles, diamonds, etc.) will remain clear after monochrome reproduction at 100 dots per
    inch.
  • Fixed width sans serif fonts will be used for all labeling (Helvetica, Arial, or Futura).
  • Boldface and italics will not be used unless substantial value is added.
  • Decorative fonts and enhancements, including borders and shading, will not be used.
    Decorative presentation methods, such as ribbon graphs, will never be used.
  • All information given in figures will also be presented in summary tables (perhaps only
    included in an Appendix or in supplementary materials).
  • Only standard characters will be used in tables and data listings.
  • All titles will be centered. The first title line will be the number of the table, figure, or
    listing. The second and possibly third lines will be the description of the table, figure, or
    data listing. The ICH numbering convention will be used for all.
  • All footnotes will be left justified and at the page bottom. Footnotes will be used sparingly.
    Reference footnotes will be complete enough to locate any reference based on the
    information provided (Author, Journal, Pages, Date, or PubMed accession number).
  • Missing values for numeric or character variables will be unambiguously identified as such
    using the special string NA (not available) in all settings; NA is the standard missing value
    code for our software. Each figure or table caption in which NA is used will indicate the




9 March 2017                                                                                   36
    meaning of NA in that figure or table. The abbreviation NA will never be used for any other
    purpose.
  • All date values will presented in the form DDmmmYYYY format (e.g. 01jan2008), using
    four digit years. June will be encoded as jne (otherwise jan and jun would differ by
    only a single character), and July as jly (so that the lowercase letter l, easily confused
    with the digit 1, will not be adjacent to any numerals).
  • All tables, figures, and data listings will have the name of the program and a date/time
    stamp on the bottom of the output.




9 March 2017                                                                                37
9 Abbreviations and acronyms
AES Advanced Encryption Standard
CAS Chemical Abstracts Service
DSMC Data and Safety Monitoring Committee
FAST First-line Antimetabolites as Steroid-sparing Treatment
FIPS Federal Information Processing Standard
ICH International Conference on Harmonization
logMAR log of minimum angle of resolution
MOP Manual of Operations and Procedures
MUTT Mycotic Ulcer Treatment Trial
NIST National Institute of Standards and Technology
SAP Statistical Analysis Plan
SCUT Steroids for Corneal Ulcers Trial
TM T. Margolis
TL T. Lietman
TP T. Porco
UCSF University of California, San Francisco
WE Wayne Enanoria




9 March 2017                                                   38
10 Appendix
All computations will be performed using the standard software package R (http://www.r-
project.org). Statistician TP has twenty years of experience using R or very similar statistical
computing environments (S, S-Plus).
Specification of the random number seed and pseudorandom number algorithm determines the entire
randomization assignment (as is the case with any pseudorandom number generation method).
Accordingly, the random number seed will be kept confidential, and the seed will be chosen carefully. In
particular, easy-to-remember numbers or otherwise meaningful numbers (such as telephone numbers,
birthdays, and so forth) are to be scrupulously avoided. The chosen seed will be used to generate the final
randomization lists.
A printed copy of the randomization lists for all sites, the computer code used to generate them, and the
random number seed will be maintained in a locked vault off site. The random number seed chosen will
consist of at least eight digits, and a standard linear feedback shift-register algorithm will be used for
pseudorandom number generation.29


11 Document Revision History

13 January 2015

2.3.1 Specific Aim 1
    • Added secondary analysis: To evaluate a difference in treatment success controlling for
       vasculitis at baseline, assessed at six months.
    • Added secondary analysis: To explore the use of a dynamic process model (such as a
       Hidden Markov model) to assess differences in control of inflammation.
    • Added secondary analysis: To determine the proportion of patients beginning with at least
       2+ inflammation in anterior chamber cells and experience at least a 2-step reduction
    • Added secondary analysis: To determine the proportion of patients beginning with at least
       2+ inflammation in vitreous haze and experience at least a 2-step reduction
    • Added secondary analysis: Proportion of patients who started with at least 1+
       inflammation levels in anterior chamber cells who achieve a decrease to 0 level of
       inflammation in anterior chamber cells
    • Added secondary analysis: Proportion of patients who started with at least 1+
       inflammation levels in vitreous haze who achieve a decrease to 0 level of inflammation in
       vitreous haze

2.4.1 Stratification between sites
    • Updated: Patients will be recruited from nine sites: Aravind Madurai-AEHM, Aravind
       Coimbatore-AEHC, Aravind Pondicherry-AEHP, Casey Eye Institute-OHSU, King
       Khaled Eye Specialist Hospital-KKESH, Centre for Eye Research Australia-CERA,
       Asociación Para Evitar La Ceguera en México-APEC, Northwestern University-NWU,
       and Proctor Foundation-UCSF (see Manual of Operations Section 2.2 for details).




9 March 2017                                                                                            39
2.4.4 Unique patient identifiers
    • Updated for correct number of sites: Unique patient identifiers will be generated as
       follows. The first character will be a number: “1” for CERA, “2” for UCSF, “3” for
       NWU, and “4” for Casey Eye Institute OHSU, “5” for APEC, “6” for KKESH, “7” for
       Aravind Madurai AEHM, “8” for Aravind Coimbatore AEHC, and “9” for Aravind
       Pondicherry AEHP.

3.2.2 Planned Analysis of Primary Outcome
    • Added that study site will be treated as a random effect in the primary analysis
    • Added non-inferiority analysis with a prespecified non-inferiority limit if the primary
        outcome is no statistically significant.

3.5.1 Injections (New Section)
    • Added section: If a patient receives a corticosteroid injection 90 days after enrollment, it
        is not possible to truly assess the study drug’s ability to manage inflammation at the
        Month 6 visit. Therefore, as a senstivity analysis, the primary outcome for these patients
        will be considered by the inflammation levels at the time of the injection. If the patient
        received the injection because of uncontrolled inflammation, the patient will be
        considered a treatment failure. If the patient met the definition of treatment success at the
        time of the injection, the patient will be considered a treatment success.

4.2 Major protocol deviations
   • Added: received a corticosteroid injection >90 days after enrollment for macular edema or
     at any time for inflammation



9 March 2017
2.4.2 Randomization List
    • Updated: Starting 18 January 2017, all patients will be randomized using the REDCap
       database. Coordinators can access only the randomization lists for their site. When
       patients are enrolled, the ID is logged in REDCap and the system provides the medication
       assignment. All emergency contacts have access to the REDCap database for their site in
       case of an emergency when unmasking is needed for patient safety. The REDCap
       database contains assignments for all previously enrolled patients. All previous
       randomization lists were deemed void and were destroyed. Each site submitted a
       certification of destruction form.

2.4.6 Provision of randomization list
    • Updated: As of 17 January 2017, all randomization lists are electronic on REDCap. Once
       a patient is enrolled, the study coordinator logs the patient in the database and the system
       reveals the drug assignment, written out in full.




9 March 2017                                                                                       40
12 Bibliography
1.      Ethical Guidelines for Statistical Practice. Alexandria, Virginia: American Statistical
Association, 1999.
2.      Food and Drug Administration USA. International Conference on Harmonization,
Guidance on Statistical Principles for Clinical Trials. U.S. Federal Register 1998;63:49583-
49598.
3.      Friedman LM, Furberg C, DeMets DL. Fundamentals of clinical trials, 4th ed. New York:
Springer, 2010:xviii, 361 p.
4.      ISBN User's Manual. Berlin: Staatsbibliothek zu Berlin — Preußischer Kulturbesitz,
2001.
5.      Bolker BM, Brooks ME, Clark CJ, et al. Generalized linear mixed models: a practical
guide for ecology and evolution. Trends in Ecology and Evolution 2009;24:127-135.
6.      Pankratz VS, de Andrade M, Therneau TM. Random-effects Cox proportional hazards
model: general variance components methods for time-to-event data. Genetic Epidemiology
2005;28:97-109.
7.      Skrondal A, Rabe-Hesketh S. Multilevel logistic regression for polytomous data and
rankings. Psychometrika 2003;68:267-287.
8.      Nobre J, Singer J. Residual analysis for linear mixed models. Biometrical Journal
2007;49:863-875.
9.      Tuerlinckx F, Rijmen F, Verbeke G, de Boeck P. Statistical inference in generalized
linear mixed models: a review. British Journal of Mathematical and Statistical Psychology
2006;59:225-255.
10.     Gill R, Schumacher M. A simple test of the proportional hazards assumption. Biometrika
1987;74:289-300.
11.     Ocana J, El Halimi R, de Villa M, Sanchez J. Bootstrapping repeated measures data in a
nonlinear mixed-models context. Universitat de Barcelona: Institut de Mathematica Preprint 367,
2005.
12.     Galor A, Jabs DA, Leder HA, et al. Comparison of antimetabolite drugs as corticosteroid-
sparing therapy for noninfectious ocular inflammation. Ophthalmology 2008;115:1826-32.
13.     Baltatzis S, Tufail F, Yu EN, Vredeveld CM, Foster CS. Mycophenolate mofetil as an
immunomodulatory agent in the treatment of chronic ocular inflammatory disorders.
Ophthalmology 2003;110:1061-5.
14.     Samson CM, Waheed N, Baltatzis S, Foster CS. Methotrexate therapy for chronic
noninfectious uveitis: analysis of a case series of 160 patients. Ophthalmology 2001;108:1134-9.
15.     Chow S-C, Shao J, Wang H. Sample size calculations in clinical research. New York:
Marcel Dekker, 2003:ix, 358 p.
16.     Murphy CC, Hughes EH, Frost NA, Dick AD. Quality of life and visual function in
patients with intermediate uveitis. Br J Ophthalmol 2005;89:1161-5.
17.     Brazier JE, Harper R, Jones NM, et al. Validating the SF-36 health survey questionnaire:
new outcome measure for primary care. Bmj 1992;305:160-4.
18.     Daniel E, Thorne JE, Newcomb CW, et al. Mycophenolate Mofetil for Ocular
Inflammation. Am J Ophthalmol 2009.




9 March 2017                                                                                 41
19.     Gangaputra S, Newcomb CW, Liesegang TL, et al. Methotrexate for Ocular
Inflammatory Diseases. Ophthalmology 2009.
20.     Thorne JE, Jabs DA, Qazi FA, Nguyen QD, Kempen JH, Dunn JP. Mycophenolate
mofetil therapy for inflammatory eye disease. Ophthalmology 2005;112:1472-7.
21.     Kempen JH, Altaweel MM, Holbrook JT, Jabs DA, Sugar EA. The multicenter uveitis
steroid treatment trial: rationale, design, and baseline characteristics. Am J Ophthalmol;149:550-
561 e10.
22.     Roesel M, Heimes B, Heinz C, Henschel A, Spital G, Heiligenhaus A. Comparison of
retinal thickness and fundus-related microperimetry with visual acuity in uveitic macular
oedema. Acta Ophthalmol 2009.
23.     Grover S, Murthy RK, Brar VS, Chalam KV. Normative data for macular thickness by
high-definition spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (spectralis). Am J Ophthalmol
2009;148:266-71.
24.     Sobrin L, Christen W, Foster CS. Mycophenolate mofetil after methotrexate failure or
intolerance in the treatment of scleritis and uveitis. Ophthalmology 2008;115:1416-21, 1421 e1.
25.     Little RJA, Rubin DB. Statistical Analysis with Missing Data. New York: John Wiley,
2002.
26.     Unnebrink K, Windeler J. Intention-to-treat: methods for dealing with missing values in
clinical trials of progressively deteriorating diseases. Statistics in Medicine 2001;20:3931-3946.
27.     DeMets DL, Lan KK. Interim analysis: the alpha spending function approach. Stat Med
1994;13:1341-52; discussion 1353-6.
28.     Lan KK, Wittes J. The B-value: a tool for monitoring data. Biometrics 1988;44:579-85.
29.     Matsumoto M, Nishimura T. Mersenne twister: a 623-dimensionally equidistributed
uniform pseudo-random number generator. ACM Transactions on Modeling and Computer
Simulation 1998;8:3-30.




9 March 2017                                                                                   42
