12 months. This data will be summarised as the mean, standard deviation, minimum and maximum values for
the continuous score as well as number and percentage for the categories by treatment arm and time-point.

The main analysis of this data will be based on the continuous data so this outcome will be analysed using the
same analysis methods as described in section 9.5 for primary outcome. For this outcome only, additional
covariates for history of myocardial infarction (MI) at baseline, coronary angioplasty or stents (PCI) at baseline
and coronary artery bypass surgery (CAPG) at baseline will also be adjusted for in the model. Higher values of
LVEF are considered better and since the Bisoprolol arm will again be used as a reference category for the model
based analysis of this, higher values will indicate better outcome for Digoxin arm.

    x Diastolic function (E/e’ and composite of diastolic indices) at 12 months
The data for E/e’ is a ratio and so continuous in nature. This data is collected at baseline and at 12 months. The
mean and standard deviation along with minimum and maximum values will be presented by treatment arm and
time-point.

This outcome will be analysed using the same analysis methods as described in section 9.5 for primary outcome.
Lower values of E/e’ are considered better and since the Bisoprolol arm will again be used as a reference
category for the model based analysis of this, lower values will indicate better outcome for Digoxin arm.

The data for the composite of diastolic indices is a binary (yes/no) and will be computed as described in the data
manipulations section 9.4. This data is collected at baseline and 12 months and will be summarised as number
and percentage by treatment arm and time-point. The analysis for this outcome will be conducted using a logistic
regression model, where the outcome will be the binary category (yes/no) at 12 months and independent
variables in the model being the baseline category, treatment arm, all minimisation variables, age at
randomisation and baseline LVEF. An adjusted odds ratio and 95% confidence interval will be estimated from the
logistic regression model.

    x Change in heart rate
The data type for heart rate is continuous in nature. This data is collected at baseline, 6 months and at 12
months. The mean and standard deviation along with minimum and maximum values will be presented by
treatment arm and time-point for 1) Radial heart rate, 2) Apical heart rate, 3) 12-lead ECG heart rate, and 4) 24-
hour ambulatory average heart rate. The 24-hour ambulatory heart rate is only measured once and so no
baseline score will be there to adjust for it in analysis.

These outcomes will be analysed using the same analysis methods as described in section 9.5 for primary
outcome and analysis will be done separately for 6 and 12 month time-points.

A scatter plot of radial vs apical heart rate at each time point will be produced to visualise the radial-apical
discrepancy.

Functional assessment
     x Six-minute walking distance at 6 and 12 months
The data for this outcome is continuous in nature and this test is conducted at baseline, 6 months and 12
months. The time (measured in min/s) and distance (measured in metres) are only recorded if the patient did the
test. Therefore this data will be summarised by treatment arm and time-point with respect to the number of
patients conducting the test, the mean and standard deviation, median and IQR as well as minimum and
maximum values for time and distance covered. Reasons for stopping the test prematurely were also collected
and so this will also be summarised by treatment arm and time-point.

The main endpoint for this outcome is the distance (in metres) walked and so this will be analysed using the
same analysis methods as described in section 9.5 for primary outcome and analysis will be done separately for 6
and 12 month time-point.


                                                     Page 20 of 45
