RATE-AF Trial Protocol                                                      Version 3.0, 25th July 2019


        digoxin has an impact on mortality in AF patients, even with concomitant heart failure, which
        highlights the need to determine treatment effects on quality of life and cardiac function.



                  Trial Design and Objectives

        RATE-AF is Prospective, Randomised Open-label Blinded Endpoint (PROBE) clinical trial
        comparing the use of digoxin and beta-blockers as initial rate control therapy.

        In this section, we discuss the trial design and study objectives. Detailed outcome measures are
        listed in Section 12.


        Justification for a PROBE rather than a Double Blind Trial Design
        Although a double blind design would be the most robust trial design with respect to bias, it would
        not be ethical to do so in this scenario as clinicians would feel the need to add therapy according
        to heart rate. In addition, the RATE-AF Trial aims to test a strategy of initial care. PROBE trial
        design maintains the benefits associated with a strict randomisation procedure, while the blinded
        end points help to eliminate bias.

        The trial design aims for a pragmatic ‘all-comers’ approach, applicable to those seen in clinical
        practice to allow transfer of the findings to routine clinical management of patients with permanent
        AF.

        Assessment and Management of Risk

        This trial is categorised by the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) as:
        Type A = No higher than the risk of standard medical care
        The assessment and management of risk is detailed in the separate RATE-AF Risk Assessment
        document. An on-going evaluation of risk will continue throughout the recruitment period.



        3.1 Hypothesis

        Null Hypothesis for primary outcome:
        No difference in patient-reported quality of life (measured using the physical functioning domain of
        the SF36 questionnaire) when comparing a strategy of digoxin versus beta-blocker therapy for
        initial rate control in patients with permanent AF.

        Alternative Hypothesis:
        Use of digoxin or beta-blocker therapy as initial rate control in patients with permanent AF is
        superior based on patient reported quality of life (measured using the physical functioning domain
        of the SF36 questionnaire).



EudraCT No.: 2015-005043-13                                                                   Page 21 of 69
