CHU de Poitiers                                                              High-Wean Study



2   BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE OF THE STUDY
Extubation is usually decided after a weaning readiness test involving spontaneous breathing
on a T-piece or low levels of ventilatory assist. The day of extubation is a critical time during
an intensive care unit (ICU) stay because in case of extubation failure, mortality can reach 30
to 50% [1, 2]. The overall rate of extubation failure is around 15% but it may exceed 20-25%
in some subsets of patients considered at high-risk. Up until now, the majority of the
patients have been treated with standard oxygen after extubation. High flow nasal cannula
oxygen therapy (HFNC) is a well-tolerated device for oxygenation that at once improves gas
exchange [3] and reduces the work of breathing [4]. Recently, several studies showed a
significant reduction in the reintubation rate after planned extubation for patients treated
with HFNC as compared to standard oxygen [5, 6]. Furthermore, several studies also suggest
that prophylactic NIV could reduce the risk of acute respiratory failure, particularly in
hypercapnic patients [7-9]. However, a large population may benefit from NIV, especially
patients older than 65 years and those with any underlying chronic cardiac or respiratory
disease. Easy to identify and at high risk of reintubation, these patients represent around
half of those extubated in an ICU [10]. In this subset of patients, we have recently reported a
significant reduction in the reintubation rate when prophylactic was systematically applied
after extubation and interspersed with standard oxygen [11]. In order to further improve gas
exchange and the work of breathing, HFNC may replace standard oxygen between NIV
sessions. We are hypothesizing that treatment associating NIV with HFNC between NIV
sessions may be more effective than HFNC alone, and may reduce the reintubation rate in
patients at high risk of extubation failure in the ICU

2.1 USE OF PROPHYLACTIC NIV AFTER PLANNED EXTUBATION IN THE ICU
Prophylactic NIV used to prevent respiratory failure after extubation must be clearly
distinguished from therapeutic NIV used to treat post-extubation respiratory distress.
Therapeutic NIV has no proven benefit in the overall population of patients with post-
extubation acute respiratory failure [12] and can even increase the risk of death by delaying
reintubation [13]. By contrast, prophylactic NIV is applied immediately after a planned
extubation, in the absence of respiratory failure. The switch from mechanical ventilation to
spontaneous breathing can unmask latent left ventricular dysfunction [14], and positive
pressure delivered by NIV represents the reference treatment of cardiogenic pulmonary
edema [15, 16]. NIV is also particularly effective in patients with chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease (COPD) by reducing work of breathing [17, 18], in patients with obesity-
hypoventilation syndrome (OHS) [19], and in case of obstructive sleep apneas. Thus,
prophylactic NIV may be beneficial in patients with cardiac heart failure and those chronic
lung disease or diaphragmatic dysfunction.


Results of clinical studies
Several RCTs have evaluated the use of prophylactic NIV immediately after extubation in
patients having successfully passed a weaning readiness test, and ready for extubation [7-9,
20-22]. The results of all randomized controlled studies indexed in Medline are given in the
Table 1. As compared to standard oxygen, several studies suggest that prophylactic NIV
could reduce the risk of post-extubation respiratory failure in patients at high-risk for
reintubation, particularly in hypercapnic patients [7-9]. In the first study, 97 patients
considered at high-risk according to heterogeneous criteria (hypercapnic patients,

                         th
Version n° 4 of the 17        of october 2017                                     Page 14 sur 48
