                                    ARMMS-T2D Clinical Protocol



           o   Objective clinical data such as HgbA1C, fasting plasma glucose, lipid levels,
               blood pressure.
           o Duration of comorbidities prior to randomization
   x   Outcome information at longest recorded follow up including resolution of any of above
       comorbidities as well as changes or discontinuation of medications.
           o Objective clinical data such as HgbA1C, fasting plasma glucose, lipid levels,
               blood pressure.
   x   Adverse events and complications in both surgical and nonsurgical arms
   x   Healthcare utilization from surgery arm, if available
           o Preoperative work up
           o ED visits
           o Clinic visits
           o Medications
   x   Healthcare utilization of intensive lifestyle management/nonsurgical treatment arm, if
       available
           o Clinic visits
           o ED visits
           o Dietician visits
           o Medications
           o Exercise programs
   x   All quality of life surveys and types captured pre-operative and post-operative visits
   x   No direct cost information is required

Risk and Safety Concerns
Potential risks to ARMMS-T2D participants is expected to be minimal. The study involves de-
identified data and the risk of harm is no greater than what would be encountered in daily life.
No additional information will be collected from participants. Transmitted data will be stored
within UPMC encrypted, cloud-based storage systems behind secure institutional firewalls with
strong passwords. Data will not be stored on local devices.

There is no direct benefit for participants expected. No additional compensation will be provided.

Economic evaluations, particularly cost utility studies comparing US dollars per QALY earned
allow for comparisons of interventions across multiple studies. Ultimately, information obtained
from this study could support efforts to expand access to bariatric and metabolic surgery.

Impact on ARMMS-T2D Parent Study
No direct impact is expected on the parent study. The results of this study are expected to
support any findings of benefits seen in surgical treatment of patients with obesity and type 2
diabetes within the parent study.

All interested sites are invited to participate. The only ARMMS-T2D resources required are the
clinical data on randomized patients. The impact on the DCC is expected to include compilation
and transmission of requested data in a secure fashion. Data analysis will occur within the
TreeAge software or Microsoft Excel 2017.

Resources Required
TreeAge Pro 2018 will be used to carry out cost-effectiveness analysis. This software has been
provided to this group without charge. Data storage will be provided by existing UPMC
institutional infrastructure.


Confidential                                                                                      63
Version 6 Date 15APR2020
