ARMMS-T2D Clinical Protocol

2.0 INTRODUCTION
2.1 Background
Type 2 diabetes (T2D) and obesity are now endemic worldwide, causing significant morbidity
related to renal and cardiovascular diseases, and are the driving force behind preventable
mortality. Recent national surveys show that 29.1 million Americans, or 9.3% of the adult
population, have diabetes and 34% are obese, which together contribute to substantial individual
health burden and societal healthcare costs. The short-term safety and efficacy of currently
practiced bariatric procedures to improve metabolic control and induce initial remission of T2D in
severe obesity (BMI ≥35 kg/m2) is established, and emerging data indicates that bariatric surgery
is also effective in patients with BMI <35 kg/m 2. Long-term observational studies suggest that
bariatric surgical procedures improve survival and reduce cardiovascular events among patients
with diabetes; however, observational studies are limited by considerable unmeasured selection
bias. In addition, advances in pharmacologic and multidisciplinary lifestyle approaches to diabetes
management have led some to question whether bariatric surgery should be considered as a
therapeutic approach to diabetes management.

2.2 Rationale for Aim 1
The NIH sponsored several randomized control trials (RCTs) to evaluate the efficacy of
bariatric/metabolic surgery compared to multidisciplinary medical and lifestyle management of
T2D and body weight. These trials assessed feasibility, with a relatively short follow-up of 1-3
years, and showed significantly greater diabetes remission in the surgery compared to medical
therapy groups. However, they were not of sufficient duration to provide long-term data to assess
durability, and hence the data that would support recommendations for the use of
bariatric/metabolic surgery to treat lower-BMI patients with T2D. To address the need for longterm RCT data, investigators from four of the NIH funded RCTs (Cleveland Clinic, Joslin Diabetes
Center/Brigham and Women’s Hospital (BWH), University of Pittsburgh, and the University of
Washington) formed the Alliance of Randomized Trials of Medicine versus Metabolic Surgery in
Type 2 Diabetes (ARMMS-T2D) consortium. These RCTs include a set of common measures,
and all completed at least two years of follow-up. When combined, participants from these studies
represent the largest cohort of patients with T2D (35% having a BMI <35 kg/m 2) ever to have
undergone randomized assignment to bariatric/metabolic surgical procedures or medical/lifestyle
intervention. Across the four studies, 355 patients were originally randomized, and 302 patients
are currently available for long term follow-up. This rare and valuable cohort provides a unique,
timely, and cost-effective opportunity to obtain essential data on the durability of bariatric surgery
effects and changes-over-time pertaining to diabetes and related conditions.
Diabetes and Bariatric Surgery
People with diabetes can reduce the occurrence of micro- and macro-vascular complications by
controlling blood glucose, lipids, and blood pressure. However, the intensification of medical
therapy that is required to sufficiently reduce levels of glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA 1c) can result
in weight gain and an increased risk of hypoglycemia. These two factors - weight gain and the
fear of hypoglycemia - often limit patients’ potential to reach euglycemia. Despite the widespread
availability of insulin and oral hypoglycemic agents, the prevalence of T2D has rapidly increased
over the past two decades. Furthermore, the best available medical and lifestyle treatment for
T2D has failed to result in a reduction in long-term cardiovascular risk (1).
Among severely obese patients, bariatric surgery causes substantial, sustained weight loss.
Bariatric operations range from gastric-restrictive, to malabsorptive, to gastro-entero-neuronalhormonal altering procedures, including laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding (LAGB),
Confidential
Version 6 Date 15APR2020

9

