ARMMS-T2D Clinical Protocol

information within its sphere of responsibility. All forms used for the study data will be identified
by coded identification number, which will be generated at the clinical center, to maintain subject
confidentiality. All records will be kept in locked file cabinets at the clinical centers with access
limited to study staff, and all study staff will identify participants via their unique identifier. Clinical
information will not be released without written permission of the participant, except as necessary
for monitoring by the IRB or OSMB. The participant grants permission to share research data with
these entities in the consent document. Federal regulations govern the protection of patient’s
rights relative to data confidentiality and use of research data.
Consent procedures and forms, and the communication, transmission and stoppage of patient
data will comply with individual-site IRB requirements for compliance with The Health Insurance
Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA). The Privacy Rule of HIPAA governs the protection of
an individual’s identifiable health information. The DCC will ensure that clinical centers associated
with the project comply with HIPAA regulations by requiring documentation from the IRBs with
the appropriate authorization or consent form. The DCC will maintain copies of all relevant
documents from each clinical center. If IRB approvals are not current, data will not be accepted
by the DCC. The REDCap data management system will be used to ensure the confidentiality of
electronic protected health information. Biospecimens will be labeled with each participant’s
coded identification number; there will be no protected health information indicated on the label.

14.0 DATA SHARING PLAN
In order to meet the Consortium objectives, members have agreed to share limited data sets
and documents from their original randomized trials. All data will be sent to the DCC and stored
on secure, access-limited servers. The shared data and documents will be kept confidential
among the members and not shared or published externally without the members’ consent.
The DCC will deposit the final de-identified study data into the NIDDK central data repository.
The Consortium will follow the NIH data sharing policy
(https://grants.nih.gov/grants/policy/data_sharing/). Data will be de-identified appropriately
according to HIPAA regulations or NIDDK specifications.

Confidential
Version 6 Date 15APR2020

42

