                                     ARMMS-T2D Clinical Protocol



1.0 STUDY AIMS
1.1 Specific Aims
Aim 1 – To compare the durability of glycemic control, assessed by HbA 1c, between
patients randomized to bariatric/metabolic surgery or comprehensive medical/lifestyle
therapy.
For our primary outcome, we will examine between-group differences in the percent change of
HbA1c over time from baseline to 7 years for all participants, and up to 13 years for the earliest
enrollees. We hypothesize that, among persons with T2D and a baseline BMI of 27-45 kg/m2, the
percent change in HbA1c will be clinically and significantly greater following random treatment
allocation to bariatric/metabolic surgery compared to medical/lifestyle therapy. We will also
compare the following clinically important secondary outcomes across treatment groups: a) rate
of glycemic control, b) rate of diabetes remission, and c) rate of diabetes relapse after initial
remission.
Aim 2 – To assess the longer-term efficacy and safety outcomes in patients randomized
to bariatric/metabolic surgery or comprehensive medical/lifestyle therapy.
For efficacy, we will test the hypothesis that the percent change over time in weight/BMI,
cardiometabolic risk factors (lipids, blood pressure, albuminuria), cardiometabolic risk score, and
quality of life, will be greater for those randomized to bariatric/metabolic surgery compared to
medical/lifestyle therapy from baseline to 7 years follow-up for all participants, and up to 13 years
for the earliest enrollees. For our safety outcomes, we will report major adverse events (e.g.,
hospitalizations, deaths, serious hypoglycemia).
Aim 3 – To identify clinical predictors of diabetes remission and relapse.
We hypothesize that baseline age, T2D duration, pre-intervention insulin use, HbA1c, glucose and
insulin levels, procedure type, and amount of initial weight loss will be significant predictors of
long-term diabetes remission and relapse.
Impact - The ARMMS-T2D study will provide the largest body of long-term Level-1 evidence to
inform clinical decision-making regarding the comparative durability, efficacy, and safety of
bariatric/metabolic surgery relative to medical/lifestyle care of diabetes, including among patients
with only mild obesity or mere overweight.




Confidential                                                                                       7
Version 6 Date 15APR2020
