ARMMS-T2D Clinical Protocol

Specific Aim:
x Evaluate cost-effectiveness of metabolic surgery compared to intensive lifestyle medical
interventions for all patients with BMI 30-35 with type 2 diabetes using a state-transition
(Markov) microsimulation model.
Methods and Study Design:
A cohort state-transition model (Markov model) was developed utilizing TreeAge Pro 2018
(TreeAge Software, Inc., Williamstown, MA) to compare cost-utility of two strategies: bariatric
surgery vs. incentive lifestyle modifications.
x Cost effectiveness threshold will be set at $100,000/QALYs
o Costs will be determined from the perspective of a third-party payer. No
accounting for patient or caregiver time will be include.
o Benefits will be reported using QALYs
x Prior studies have utilized BMI reduction for utility changes, but this study will utilize
quality of life (QoL) surveys captured in respective trials as this population starts at a
lower BMI which may under represent benefit to patients if used exclusively
x Background mortality will be estimated from US Third National Health and Nutritional
Examination Survey17
x Costs will be determined from national references, such as Medicare fee schedule,
referencing utilization of patients in the included studies rather than site specific costs
due to significant geographic variation in costs of care
x Probabilistic sensitivity analyses will be performed to test assumptions made on model
and impact on results
Timeline
Model development has already started and will continue to proceed without the required data.
Once model development and testing has completed, data from all interested sites will need to
be analyzed. Model development and debugging is expected to take 3 months and data
analysis will take 1-2 months after model completion.
Role of ARMMS-T2D DCC
Staff members at DCC will need to compile and securely transmit required data from
participating sites.
Data Analysis
Data provided by participating sites will be used to calculate the initial distribution patients such
as preoperative BMI, age, and comorbidity status. Longitudinal clinical information will be used
to estimate probabilities of developing certain outcomes, such as weight loss, comorbidity
changes, and adverse events. The model will use the probabilities to calculate expected values
of costs and QALYs for a similar patient population via a Markov microsimulation.
Data Required
x Identified information is not required and not requested. However, a patient identifier
would be required to match and track patient data over time.
x Data required is limited to those patients with a BMI less than or equal to 35
x Basic patient demographics include pre-randomization information including age,
gender, race/ethnicity, weight, BMI, presence or absence of comorbidities including Type
2 diabetes, hypertension, coronary artery disease, obstructive sleep apnea,
gastroesophageal disease, osteoarthritis, or other comorbidities.
o Medications required for comorbid conditions
Confidential
Version 6 Date 15APR2020

62

