                                     ARMMS-T2D Clinical Protocol



   Consortium of RCTs
Previously, four investigative groups initiated RCT’s at their respective site to evaluate the
effectiveness of bariatric surgery compared to multidisciplinary medical and lifestyle management
of diabetes and body weight. These trials were each designed to assess feasibility with a
relatively short duration of follow-up of only 1-3 years. Individually, each trial lacks the sample
size and duration of follow-up to meaningfully inform clinical decision making. Together, with
longer follow-up, these randomized trials can provide a unique national resource to address timely
and unanswered clinical questions related to the durability of these alternative management
approaches in patients with T2D and obesity.
Investigators from these four RCTs (Appendix 1) have unified to form the Alliance of Randomized
Trials of Medicine versus Metabolic Surgery in Type 2 Diabetes (ARMMS-T2D) Consortium to
support a longer-term (7 additional years) follow-up of 302 participants who were randomized to
surgical vs. non-surgical diabetes management approaches. These RCTs include a set of
common measures, and all have completed a minimum of one-year follow-up assessments
(Appendix 2). Together, participants from these studies represent the largest cohort with diabetes
(one third having a BMI <35 kg/m 2) ever to undergo randomized assignment to bariatric surgical
procedure vs. medical/lifestyle intervention.



3.0 STUDY OBJECTIVES
The aim of the study is to assess the durability and effectiveness of bariatric surgery compared
to medical/lifestyle management of T2D in obese patients at seven or more years’ follow-up.
Specifically, our primary outcome will examine between-group differences in the percent change
of HbA1c over time from baseline to 7 years for all participants, and up to 13 years for the earliest
enrollees. We hypothesize that, among persons with T2D and a baseline BMI of 27-45 kg/m2, the
percent change in HbA1c will be clinically and significantly greater following random treatment
allocation to bariatric/metabolic surgery compared to medical/lifestyle therapy. We will also
compare the following clinically important secondary outcomes across treatment groups: a) rate
of glycemic control, b) rate of diabetes remission, and c) rate of diabetes relapse after initial
remission.
The study also seeks to determine longer-term efficacy and safety outcomes in patients
randomized to bariatric/metabolic surgery or comprehensive medical/lifestyle therapy. For
efficacy, we will test the hypothesis that the percent change over time in weight/BMI,
cardiometabolic risk factors (lipids, blood pressure, albuminuria), cardiometabolic risk score, and
quality of life, will be greater for those randomized to bariatric/metabolic surgery compared to
medical/lifestyle therapy from baseline to 7 years of follow-up for all participants, and up to 13
years for the earliest enrollees. For our safety outcomes, we will report major adverse events
(e.g., hospitalizations, deaths, serious hypoglycemia).
We will also identify clinical predictors of diabetes remission and relapse. We hypothesize that
baseline age, T2D duration, pre-intervention insulin use, HbA1c, glucose and insulin levels,
procedure type, and amount of initial weight loss will be significant predictors of long-term
diabetes remission and relapse.
Subject to IRB approval and subject informed consent, this study will include an additional
research component involving collection of biological samples (biobank) for de-identified
exploratory analysis.



Confidential                                                                                      16
Version 6 Date 15APR2020
