                                       ARMMS-T2D Clinical Protocol



4.5 Exploratory Endpoints
Exploratory endpoints include:
   1. Biomarkers including C-reactive protein and others
   2. Long-term rates of diabetes-related events (e.g., diabetes-related amputation, and for
       retinopathy: need for laser therapy or use of injected VGEF inhibitors, or incident
       blindness)
   3. Obesity-related events (e.g. new non-skin cancer, etc.)



5.0 SUBJECT SELECTION AND WITHDRAWAL
5.1 Inclusion Criteria
Participants who underwent bariatric surgery or medical/lifestyle therapy in an RCT at one of the
4 participating sites are eligible for this longer-term follow-up study. Participants who enrolled in
an RCT at one of the four consortium sites must also have initiated intervention procedures.
Participants who were randomized in one of the RCTs but never initiated intervention will not be
included.
    Current Inclusion Criteria
        x   Participant must have met original inclusion criteria for study participation and enrolled
            in an RCT at one of the 4 participating sites.
        x   Participant must have initiated intervention and / or received randomized treatment
            after enrolling in the original RCT at one of the 4 participating sites.
        x   Participants must be willing to comply with the additional follow-up visits and telephone
            encounters, and sign the informed consent.
            Participants who were initially randomized to medical therapy and later had bariatric
            surgery are eligible.

5.2 Exclusion Criteria
        x   Did not receive randomized treatment in one of the four RCTs
        x   Refusal to sign informed consent

5.3 Participant Recruitment
All participants who have met all protocol inclusion criteria and no exclusion criteria will be eligible
for re-consenting. Participants initially randomized to the Medical Management arm who later had
bariatric surgery will be eligible for re-consent and will be followed per protocol.
Each site will be responsible for contacting their participants. All eligible participants will be mailed
a letter thanking them for their previous participation and asking them to consider continued long-
term observation at their original site. The letter is followed in approximately 1 week by a
telephone call by study staff to further discuss the longer-term observational follow-up. If
participants do not respond to either the initial letter or phone call, sites will send the initial letter
via certified registered mail. Participants who agree to enroll will need to provide written consent
to the new study procedures according to the conventions of each site’s IRB.
Enrolled participants who identify they are unable to attend study visits and therefore are potential
for either lost-to-follow-up or study withdrawal will be approached to allow the continued capture
of study data through telephone visits and medical record review. Change in Participation Status



Confidential                                                                                           20
Version 6 Date 15APR2020
