                                      ARMMS-T2D Clinical Protocol



11.2 Source Documents
Source data is all information, original records of clinical findings, observations, or other activities
necessary for the reconstruction and evaluation of the study. Source data are contained in source
documents.

11.3 Case Report Forms
As used in this protocol, the term case report form (CRF) should be understood to refer to either
a paper form or an electronic data record or both, depending on the data collection method used
in this study.
A CRF is required and should be completed for each consented participant. The completed
original CRFs are the sole property of the ARMMS-T2D Consortium and should not be made
available in any form to third parties, except for appropriate regulatory authorities.
It is the investigator's responsibility to review, ensure completion and approve all CRFs. CRFs
must be signed by the investigator or by an authorized staff member. These signatures serve to
attest that the information contained on the CRFs is true. At all times, the investigator has final
personal responsibility for the accuracy and authenticity of all clinical and laboratory data entered
on the CRFs. Subject source documents are the physician's subject records maintained at the
study site. In most cases, the source documents will be the hospital's or the physician's chart. In
cases where the source documents are the hospital or the physician's chart, the information
collected on the CRFs must match those charts.

11.4 REDCap
REDCap will be used as the electronic data capture system for this study. REDCap is a secure,
web application designed to support data capture for research studies, providing user-friendly
web-based case report forms, real-time data entry validation (e.g. for data types and range
checks), audit trails and a de-identified data export mechanism to common statistical packages
(SPSS, SAS, Stata, R/S-Plus). The system was developed by a multi-institutional consortium,
which includes Cleveland Clinic and was initiated at Vanderbilt University. The database is hosted
at the Cleveland Clinic Datacenter. The system is protected behind a login and Secure Sockets
Layer (SSL) encryption. There is an audit trail tracking all logins and activities in the database.

11.5 Data Quality and Management
To ensure quality and completeness of the data, REDCap incorporates a data edit check process
for Mandatory Check and Range Check fields along with Branching Logic into the programming
of the database. Study personnel at the DCC will monitor the data within the system to assure
that identified data discrepancies are resolved per the study specific Data Management Plan.

11.6 Previous RCT Data
The baseline data and all prior follow up data from the RCTs will be collected from each site. All
previous labs were analyzed in CLIA certified labs. All previous study Protocols will be referenced
in the study specific Data Management Plan.

11.7 Records Retention
The Investigators must maintain all confidential study documentation and take measures to
prevent accidental or premature destruction of these documents. They will retain the study
documents at least three years after the completion or discontinuation of this study. However,



Confidential                                                                                         40
Version 6 Date 15APR2020
