                                       ARMMS-T2D Clinical Protocol



previous treatment history and baseline covariates. Participants who do not crossover will have a
weight of one. Another advantage of MSM is that it can handle crossover and informative
censoring simultaneously. A censoring weight can be computed similar to IPTW. The analysis
then weighs each subject with a final weight, which is a product of IPTW and the censoring weight.
Finally, a per protocol sensitivity analysis will also be performed by discarding any outcomes
observed after crossovers. Given our sample size and the large differences in HbA 1c and
secondary outcomes that we have observed through 5 years, we expect these sensitivity analyses
will have a minimal effect on the analyses.

   Exploratory Analyses
In addition to the primary analysis, we will also conduct an exploratory analysis to compare
individual surgical and non-surgical interventions by employing direct and indirect comparison
methods similar to those in network meta-analyses (116). Direct comparison applies to two
interventions from the same study, whereas indirect comparison applies to interventions from
different studies. More specifically, we will examine and compare four interventions: Roux-en-Y
gastric bypass (RYGB), laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding (LAGB), sleeve gastrectomy
(SG), and the non-surgical intervention. For this analysis, we will revise model (A1) by replacing
the binary indicator variable for surgical and non-surgical groups with a 4-category variable
representing these four individual interventions. The revised model for this exploratory analysis
will have the following form:
                ࢅ࢏࢐࢚ ൌ ࢻࢀ૚ ࡰ࢏࢐ ൅ ࢻࢀ૛ ࢀ࢏࢐ ൅  ࢻࢀ૜ ࢂࢋࢉ൫ࡰ࢏࢐ ࢀࢀ࢏࢐ ൯൅ࢽࢀ ࢆ ൅ ࢈࢏ ൅ ࢉ࢏࢐ ൅ ࢋ࢏࢐࢚ , (A3)
where ࡰ࢏࢐ is a 4-dimensional vector with the lth element equal to 1 if the patient is in the lth
intervention group and all other elements equal to 0; ࢀ࢏࢐ is a vector with the tth element equal to
1 (i.e., at tth year visit) and all other elements equal to 0; ࢂࢋࢉሺࡰ࢏࢐ ࢀࢀ࢏࢐ ሻ is a vector of the matrix
ࡰ࢏࢐ ࢀࢀ࢏࢐ to represent all interactions between year and interventions. Other notations are the same
as those in model (A1). For each year, the least-square estimates of HbA1c percent changes of
the four groups will be obtained by fitting model (A3). We will use the Bonferroni procedure to
adjust for multiple pairwise comparisons between individual interventions.
The linear mixed-effects models used for analyzing the primary outcomes account for study
heterogeneity by assuming that the percent changes of HbA1c in the surgical/non-surgical groups
at the four sites are not identical, but follow some distribution. The final estimate of the effect
(difference of the percent changes of the two groups) from the mixed-effects models represents
an average of the effects at the four sites, and the confidence interval associated with the estimate
describes the degree of heterogeneity (117).
In addition to the classic mixed-effects model approach, we will perform an additional exploratory
analysis using a Taxonomy approach. This novel methodological approach is used to address
study heterogeneity by incorporating intervention components that are grounded in common
theory across sites, rather than the original interventions (118-120). We have employed task
analysis and a group consensus approach to successfully decompose the non-surgical
interventions at the four sites into four components: exercise, diet counseling, medication
adjustment, and other behavioral/lifestyle modifications. Task analysis represents a formalized
process for decomposing and describing an activity (121). The decomposed intervention
components are summarized in Table A2 below (refer to individual study protocols for more
details). Overall, as Table A2 shows, the four studies have very similar approaches – each
employed an intensive program of exercise, diet, behavioral, and medical intervention. For these
four components, the doses (e.g., exercise time) varied somewhat across the sites, but in each
case the dose delivered is far above what would be expected in usual clinical care settings for


Confidential                                                                                        31
Version 6 Date 15APR2020
