                                                 ARMMS-T2D Clinical Protocol



                                    cholesterol, urine
                                    microalbumin3)
                                    Microvascular or          Stroke, retinopathy, nephropathy, Binary
                                    macrovascular             foot ulcer
                                    events
               Safety4              Safety endpoints          Severe hypoglycemia and                  Binary
                                                              hyperglycemia, major adverse
                                                              cardiovascular events, etc.
 Aim 3                              Time to first                                                      Time-to-
                                    remission                                                          event
1Relapse is defined as HbA
                                 1c ≥6.5% and/or restarting diabetes medications
2UKPDS risk score for CHD (Stevens et al., 2001)

3Microalbumin data were not collected at all sites and the analysis will be restricted to patients with data measured.

4See Table 1 for the full list




Sensitivity Analyses

    Missing data
Both the linear and generalized linear mixed-effects models account for missing data by implicitly
assuming data missing at random. Missing data in this study will include intermittently missing
pattern and monotone missing pattern caused by dropouts (lost to follow-up or death). A minimal
death rate (0.9% to date) is expected for this study. In general, all methods accounting for missing
data depend on somewhat untestable assumptions (110). Maximal efforts will be made to
minimize missing data, in particular the provisions to obtain the key 7-year outcome data. We will
also perform the following sensitivity analyses.
     (1) Multiple imputation. We will use multiple imputations by chained equation (MICE) to
impute the missing endpoints (111, 112). To do so, the entire dataset will be organized as a
rectangle with columns representing baseline characteristics and longitudinal endpoints arranged
chronologically. Each mixed model will be applied to multiple imputed datasets, and results will
be summarized using Rubin’s rule.
     (2) Pattern mixture models. Pattern mixture approach (113, 114) is especially useful in the
case of informative dropout, where the dropout times (e.g., death time) and subsequent censored
endpoints depend on actual missing data. In this model, the probability distribution of the dropouts
may further differentiate those caused by death and other mechanisms.

    Crossovers
We recognize that some patients might crossover from the non-surgical arm to a bariatric surgery
option sometime during the follow-up period. There might also be a very small number of
crossovers from the surgical group to a non-surgical arm. The primary analysis will employ the
intention to treat (ITT) principle, which considers each patient in the group assigned at
randomization, regardless of later crossovers. To account for possible bias introduced by
crossovers, we will perform a sensitivity analysis based on the IPTW (inverse probability-of-
treatment weight) approach. Since crossover is likely to depend on previous outcomes,
considering the treatment pathway during the study period as a simple time-dependent variable
might be biased. Therefore, we will use the marginal structure models (MSM) with IPTW to
account for the treatment crossovers. Stabilized IPTWs (115) will be used to weight each
observation in the analysis. The weights will be calculated with logistic regression models with

Confidential                                                                                                         30
Version 6 Date 15APR2020
