ARMMS-T2D Clinical Protocol

distribution ࡹࢂࡺሺ૙ǡ ࢳࢋ ሻ; The form of ࢳࢋ will be selected with the Akaike Information Criterion. The
regression coefficients should satisfy appropriate constraints for model identifiability. Under this
model, ࢼૠ represents the difference in the mean percent changes of HbA1c at year 7 for patients
in the surgical and non-surgical groups. Testing the hypothesis
ࡴ૙ ǣࢼૠ  ൌ ૙
will provide the primary analysis results. The hypothesis will be rejected with a two-sided p-value
< 0.05.
Some patients will have been followed for up to 13 years at the end of this proposed study (e.g.,
STAMPEDE and TRIABETES patients). In addition to year 7, the model (A1) allows for estimating
the HbA1c changes of the two groups and their differences at each year, which will be performed
as a secondary analysis to illustrate the trend over the entire follow-up period.
Analysis of secondary outcomes
In addition to the primary outcome of HbA1c percent change, several secondary outcomes will
also be analyzed, including a) glycemic control, b) diabetes remission and partial remission, and
c) diabetes relapse after initial remission. The definitions of the secondary outcomes can be found
in Table A1. Since the secondary outcomes of glycemic control and diabetes remission are
longitudinal binary data, their analysis will be performed with the generalized linear mixed-effects
models (mixed-effects logistic regression models). More specifically, the model for glycemic
control will take the following form,
ࡼ࢏࢐࢚

‫ ܏ܗܔ‬૚ିࡼ

࢏࢐࢚

ൌ ࢻ࢚ ൅ ࢼ࢚ ࢄ࢏࢐ ൅ࢽࢀ ࢆ ൅ ࢈࢏ ൅ ࢉ࢏࢐

(A2)

where ࡼ࢏࢐࢚ is the probability of achieving glycemic control for subject j=1, …, n i from site i=1, …,
4 at visit t; other notations in model (A2) follow those in model (A1). Under this model, ઺ૠ
represents the log odds ratio of achieving glycemic control at year 7 for patients in the surgical
group in comparison with those from the non-surgical group. Testing the hypothesis ࡴ૙ ǣࢼૠ  ൌ ૙
is the main analysis for the secondary outcomes. Estimates at other years will also be derived.
The analysis of diabetes remission and partial remission will be the same as that for glycemic
control. The analysis of diabetes relapse will be only descriptive by estimating the Kaplan-Meier
curves. Group comparison will not be performed since the non-surgical group is expected to have
a very small number of remissions and thus relapses.
Power analysis for Aim 1
Our combined data show that the percent changes of HbA1c from baseline to 1-year are -24.0%
and -9.1% for the surgical and non-surgical groups, respectively; and the percent changes are 21.6% and -0.1% at year 3 based on the combined STAMPEDE and TRIABETES data.
STAMPEDE has finished 5 years of follow-up so far, and the data show an approximately -20%
change in the surgical group (about -2% in the non-surgical group). For the power analysis, we
assume that the mean HbA1c percent change is -20% at year 5 in the surgical group, and it
increases linearly to -15% at year 7. We also assume a linear trend for the HbA1c percent change
over time in the non-surgical group, and its 7-year percent change ranges from -7% to +2% for
different rates of crossovers to the surgical group; to date, the observed crossover rate is 0.8%,
but this might increase over time. Since the primary analysis will employ the intention-to-treat
(ITT) principle, a larger crossover rate may lead to a lower HbA1c at year 7 for the non-surgical
group.
A total of 355 patients were originally randomized across the four sites, 325 initiated treatment,
20 (6%) have been lost to follow-up, and 3 (0.9%) died. With our intensive re-recruitment and
Confidential
Version 6 Date 15APR2020

27

