                                             ARMMS-T2D Clinical Protocol



                                                           Safety Endpoints++++
 Study Outcomes/Adverse
                                                          X                 X                    X                     X
 Events
 AUDIT-C                                                  X                 X                    X                     X
   * The preferred window is ± 3 (1) months, but an extended window of up to ± 6 (1.5) months is also accepted
   ** Height will be only measured at the first annual visit
   + Albumin, Alkaline phosphatase, ALT (IU/L), AST (IU/L), BUN, Calcium-serum, Serum chloride, CO2, Creatinine (mg/dL),
   Direct bilirubin, Gamma-GT, Glucose test, LDH, Phosphorus, Potassium, Serum Sodium, Total bilirubin, Total cholesterol,
   Total protein, Uric acid
   ++ Microalbumin:creatinine ratio on morning-void urine
   +++ Per subject consent
   ++++ Defined in Section 4.4



7.6 Study Assessments

   7.6.1 Laboratory Procedures
Table 2 shows the schedule of blood samples that will be collected at every annual study visit. A
qualified central lab will be used for clinical laboratory assessments. Under circumstances that
the blood samples cannot be sent to the Central Lab, data can be collected from local (CAP /
CLIA) approved labs. All urinary albumin measures are made on a morning void prior to vigorous
exercise. In addition to performing a standard urinalysis, the urine sample will be tested for
albumin and creatinine.
Subject to IRB approval and signed subject informed consent, samples for biobanking / research
repository should be drawn and frozen at each site for later analysis. Participation in the research
repository is optional. Participants may participate in the main study even if they choose not to
participate in the biobanking / research repository evaluation. Participants, who no longer wish to
participate in the biobanking/research repository or no longer want their blood stored/analyzed for
future research, need to specifically withdraw consent from the biobanking / research repository
study. Blood, serum and plasma samples will be stored indefinitely or until all samples are used
up.

   7.6.2 Physical Measurements and Vital Signs
Height will be measured at the first annual visit. Weight, waist circumference and blood pressure
will be measured at each annual visit.

For height and weight, participants will be weighed in light clothing, with empty pockets, and
without shoes. For waist measure, we will use the NHLBI method (108).

   7.6.3 Quality of Life Assessment (SF-36)
The RAND 36-Item Health Survey will be used for the SF-36 quality of life assessment. The SF-
36 is a multi-purpose survey of general health and outcomes. It uses patient responses to
measure each of eight health concepts, and can be scored as an 8-scale profile of summary
physical and mental health outcomes. It also includes a self-evaluation of outcomes, which have
been shown to capture changes in health during the past year. Participants will complete the SF-
36 at each annual visit (Appendix 3). If participants are not able to complete the annual visit at
the research center, a SF-36 form will be mailed to the subject for them to complete.

   7.6.4 Study Outcomes and Adverse Events
All study outcomes/adverse events will be collected and reported on the corresponding page of
the CRFs from date of consent. Serious study outcomes and adverse events must be reported

Confidential                                                                                                                 25
Version 6 Date 15APR2020
