ARMMS-T2D Clinical Protocol

prior to surgery, baseline HbA1c, glucose and insulin levels, procedure type, and the amount of
initial weight loss and reduction in BMI (54, 62). First, each variable will be related to the outcome
in a univariate model. For multivariate analysis, although numerous variable selection strategies
are available, we will use regularization techniques, i.e., adaptive lasso (126, 127). Briefly, these
methods start with a “full” model that includes all potential risk factors and estimates their impact
on the outcome, while simultaneously satisfying a penalty term that in some cases restricts the
magnitude of the effect and in other cases sets it to zero. A key advantage of these methods is
that they satisfy the so-called oracle property, which states that the correct model is always
chosen asymptotically. We will use the Cox regression framework with covariate effects on the
multiplicative scale (i.e. hazard ratios). The proportional hazard assumption will be tested with
Schoenfeld residuals. We will also perform sensitivity analyses based on accelerated failure time
models that model the log time-to-event with covariate effects on the additive scale. The models
will include site as a strata variable and will control for randomized groups. As a secondary
analysis for Aim 3, we will also examine the outcome of time to relapse (14). The models will be
same as those used for the analysis of time-to-remission, but will be restricted to patients who
experienced remission. A further exploratory analysis will use a multi-state regression model to
examine predictors for transition probabilities between three diabetes states: initial state,
remission, and death. The model will assume a Markovian process and the transition intensities
will be modeled with Cox models (128).
The statistical analyses of all three aims will be performed with SAS 9.3 (Cary, NC) and R-studio
(Boston, MA).
Power analysis for Aim 3
Table A6 below summarizes the power analysis for Aim 3. Based on our preliminary data, the
overall remission rate (i.e., the proportion of all patients, both surgical and non-surgical having
first remission) is about 23% so far. Assuming that the overall remission rate is eventually 30%,
the study has a power of 80% to detect a hazard ratio as small as 1.36 per one standard deviation
(SD) of a predictor of interest (two-sided alpha = 0.05, R2 = 0.1).
Table A6. Minimum detectable hazard ratio per 1SD of the predictor of interest for Aim 3
Overall
remission
rate

R2 of the predictor of interest given other covariates*
R2=0.1

R2=0.2

R2=0.5

20%

1.46

1.50

1.67

30%

1.36

1.39

1.52

40%

1.31

1.33

1.43

*R2 is the proportion of variance explained by the multiple regression of the predictor of interest
on the remaining covariates. The calculations were performed with PASS 11.

8.3 Subject Population(s) for Analysis
The analysis population will consist of all participants who enroll (consent) to participate in this
observational follow-up study. Participants will be analyzed according to their original randomized
treatment assignment to follow the intention-to-treat principle.

Confidential
Version 6 Date 15APR2020

36

