ARMMS-T2D Clinical Protocol

studies suggest the anti-diabetes impact of RYGB is approximately as great among less obese
persons (e.g., BMI <35 kg/m2), who lose less weight postoperatively compared to the severely
obese (13, 38-42). Similarly, numerous studies indicate RYGB, and experimental variations of
the operation, reverse diabetes in both obese and non-obese diabetic animals (13, 43-48).
Therefore, the concept of “metabolic surgery” targeted primarily to treat diabetes, rather than
obesity, is increasingly recognized as an acceptable therapeutic strategy for diabetes
management (11, 13, 49, 50). However, many questions remain regarding the proper role of
surgery in overall diabetes care, and there are no RCTs related to long-term outcomes including
risks and durability to help guide clinical practice.

2.3 Review of Prior Studies
Despite a tremendous increase in the number of bariatric/metabolic operations performed in the
United States and worldwide, there is a gap between the proliferation in usage of these
procedures and the quality of the long-term evidence needed to inform clinical decisions regarding
their appropriate use, and the durability of outcomes. This research gap includes lack of
randomized treatment assignment, with structured assessment of the long-term effectiveness and
risks of bariatric surgery compared to medical management for patients with diabetes.
Existing long-term data on bariatric surgery for patients with diabetes include the following nonrandomized observational studies.
x

x

x

x

Swedish Obese Subjects Study (SOS) (5, 6, 8, 51): A prospective non-randomized
matched cohort analysis of bariatric surgery and usual care. It includes only 12% gastric
bypass patients (who came into the cohort latest), had no LAGB or LSG procedures, and
involved only 18% of patients with diabetes at baseline. This study did not match on
motivation, personality, or other important characteristics that may be important in
comparing outcomes across patients who self-selected surgical vs. non-surgical
treatment. A major concern regarding all of its findings is that because the participants
who had surgery actively chose to undergo this aggressive intervention, perhaps they
were more motivated overall to improve their health, and therefore they may also have
been more compliant with medications, led healthier lifestyles, etc. These potential
confounders limit the generalizability of all SOS reports and all other non-randomized
observational studies of bariatric surgery listed below.
The Longitudinal Assessment of Bariatric Surgery Consortium (LABS) (52, 53): A nonrandomized, multi-institutional, prospective observational evaluation of bariatric surgery.
The domains of interest include safety, longitudinal efficacy evaluations, and prospective
assessment of a range of additional outcomes, including mechanistic explorations.
Importantly, the LABS trial does not include non-surgical comparators, and only 33% of
participants had diabetes at baseline (53).
Cleveland Clinic Study on Surgical Cure for Diabetes (54): A retrospective analysis of
diabetes outcomes ≥5 years after bariatric surgery in 217 patients. There was a complete
remission rate (HbA1c <6%, fasting blood glucose <100 mg/dL) of 24%, a partial remission
rate in an additional 26% (HbA1c = 6.0-6.4%, fasting blood glucose = 100-125 mg/dL), and
improvement in a further 34% of patients. 19% of patients had long-term recurrence of
diabetes after achieving remission. Longer duration of T2D, and lower long-term excess
weight loss (EWL) predicted lack of complete remission and recurrence. This study used
precise definitions of remission and is the only study including sleeve gastrectomy.
Utah Obesity Study (2, 55, 56): A matched analysis in a cohort of patients who underwent
bariatric surgery at one center. Because this was also not a randomized study, it is plagued
by similar concerns regarding unmeasured confounding as described for SOS.

Confidential
Version 6 Date 15APR2020

11

