ARMMS-T2D Clinical Protocol

were similar to those seen in class II (BMI 35-39.9 kg/m2) and severely obese populations;
however, the review also noted a lack of long-term studies (73). Notably, two of the longest RCTs
to date include the 3-year STAMPEDE (62) and TRIABETES trials (64), and are included in this
application. Further, 5-year data from the STAMPEDE trial also suggest sustained benefit of
surgery in mild to moderately obese patients with T2D. The data demonstrate the sustained
superiority of surgery versus intensive medical/lifestyle therapy in moderate to severely obese
patients with T2D (74). Our current application will include the participants from this latter trial,
and is poised to provide the durability data that will bridge the gap in our current understanding of
long-term effects of surgery for the management of T2D.
A randomized controlled study by Dixon et al. demonstrated that the reduction in diabetes risk
following LAGB compared to a non-surgical treatment group of patients with BMI of 30-40 kg/m2
was due to the amount of weight loss after that operation (71). The medical weight loss program
in this study resulted in <2 kg weight loss at one year. An earlier study by the same group reported
greater improvement in metabolic syndrome in those patients with a BMI of 30-40 kg/m2
randomized to an intensive medical management program, but the improvements were still less
than those in the LAGB group (7). In contrast, the multi-center Look AHEAD study has shown an
8.6% weight loss and reduction in HbA1c from 7.3% to 6.6% at 12 months in response to an
intensive lifestyle intervention. One-year data from the three reported randomized trials conducted
at the Cleveland Clinic, Boston, and Pittsburgh sites of our ARMMS-T2D Consortium demonstrate
that bariatric surgical approaches provide improved glycemia, lipid profiles, weight and blood
pressure, compared to medical/lifestyle approaches that were all of higher intensity than standard
medical care. The Cleveland Clinic group recently published 5-year follow-up data for the
STAMPEDE cohort that support the durability of surgery in maintaining glycemic goals in more
patients than those treated with medical therapy (62, 74). While these data are encouraging,
there is still a major gap in our knowledge regarding the long-term (>5 years) durability and safety
of these procedures.

2.4 Rationale for Aims 2 and 3
Recent national estimates suggest that 29.1 million Americans, or 9.3% of the population, have
diabetes (75), and 34% of the adult population is obese (76). Together, type 2 diabetes (T2D) and
obesity contribute to substantial individual health burden and societal healthcare costs. In the
United States, diabetes is the number two cause of hospitalizations in adults aged 18 years or
older, accounting for approximately 11% of admissions. With no medical cure, the natural course
of diabetes is characterized by progressive beta cell failure and can be accompanied by
development of microvascular and macrovascular complications, leading to renal failure,
blindness, amputation, and death due to cardiovascular disease (CVD). Bariatric surgery has
emerged as an effective clinical tool for weight loss and initial control of T2D (63, 69-71).
Diabetes Outcomes and Intensive Medical Treatments
Persisting Unknowns Regarding Optimal Medical & Lifestyle T2D Management. Concurrent with
an expanding experience with bariatric surgery, there have also been significant advances in nonsurgical treatments of diabetes. This has led some to question why surgical options should be
considered as primary therapy at the very time when medical, non-surgical treatments show
improved efficacy (77). Since 1995, multiple diabetes drugs have been approved by the FDA,
including metformin, alpha-glucosidase inhibitors, thiazolidinediones (TZDs), glinides, GLP-1
analogs, amylin analogs, DPP-IV inhibitors, a bile acid sequestrant, a dopamine agonist, and
SGLT-2 inhibitors. Among these, two new agents, empagliflozin and liraglutide, have been shown
to improve major adverse cardiovascular event rates (78, 79). In addition, multiple insulin analogs
with improved kinetics and safer dosing profiles are now available. Together, these agents hold
great promise to generate improved health outcomes for patients with diabetes, and NHANES
Confidential
Version 6 Date 15APR2020

13

