                                      ARMMS-T2D Clinical Protocol



immediately as described under section 9.1. The Alcohol Use Disorders Identification Test
(AUDIT-C) will be used to assess alcohol use disorder.

   7.6.5 Public Health Emergencies
Declarations of a public health emergency may be made if a disease or disorder presents a public
health emergency; or if a public health emergency, including significant outbreaks of infectious
disease such as the COVID-19 pandemic, exists. Revisions may need to be made to action plans
and strategies for facilitating participant recruitment, study visits, data and specimen collection
and retention due to such emergencies.

The goal of revisions should be to assure the safety of the study participants, maintain
compliance with good clinical practice (GCP), and minimize risks to the integrity of the study.
Sponsor guidance, as well as federal and local regulations should be followed. Revisions may
include, but will not be limited to remote telecommunications and telehealth (virtual) visits
between study participants and study.

Handling a crisis of this magnitude must remain fluid. Revisions may need to be changed over
time and should therefore, undergo periodic review to maintain continuity and responsiveness to
the overall crisis management.



8.0 STATISTICAL PLAN
8.1 Analysis Plan for Aim 1
Aim 1 – To compare the durability of glycemic control, assessed by HbA 1c, between
patients randomized to bariatric/metabolic surgery or comprehensive medical/lifestyle
therapy
In general, patient baseline characteristics will be summarized with appropriate descriptive
statistics. Continuous characteristics will be compared between surgical and medical groups
using linear regression models that include site as a covariate. Skewed continuous variables will
be transformed appropriately (e.g., with log transformation). Categorical variables will be
compared using the Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test.

   Analysis of primary outcome
The primary outcome analysis will focus on comparing the percent change in HbA1c from baseline
between the surgical and non-surgical groups. Since the data are longitudinal and have
hierarchical structure, we will use a linear mixed-effects model for the analysis. The fixed effects
of the model will include group (surgical vs. non-surgical), yearly visit, and an interaction between
group and visit. Furthermore, to account for possible heterogeneity of the four parent studies, we
will include site as a fixed covariate in the model. The model will include a random intercept at the
patient level to account for correlations due to the hierarchical data structure. More specifically,
the model will take the following mathematical form,
                           ࢅ࢏࢐࢚ ൌ ࢻ࢚ ൅ ࢼ࢚ ࢄ࢏࢐ ൅ࢽࢀ ࢆ ൅ ࢈࢏ ൅ ࢉ࢏࢐ ൅ ࢋ࢏࢐࢚   (A1)
where ࢅ࢏࢐࢚ is the percent change of HbA1c for subject j=1, …, ni from site i=1, …, 4 at visit t; ࢄ࢏࢐ is
a binary indicator for treatment group (1 for surgical group and 0 for non-surgical group); ࢆ is a 4-
dimensional vector with the ith element equal to one as the subject is from the ith site; ࢻ࢚ ǡ ࢼ࢚  and
ࢽare unknown coefficients; ࢈࢏ represents a fixed effect for site i; and ࢉ࢏࢐ ̱ࡺሺ૙ǡ ࣌૛ࢉ ሻ is a Gaussian
random effect at the patient level; the residual vector, ࢋ࢏࢐Ǥǡ follows a multivariate-Gaussian

Confidential                                                                                        26
Version 6 Date 15APR2020
