                                      ARMMS-T2D Clinical Protocol



7.0 STUDY PROCEDURES
In addition to laboratory testing to monitor diabetes control, additional measures will be taken to
evaluate quality of life and health status, including end-organ damage and metabolic changes in
the medical and surgical groups during the long-term follow-up period.

7.1 Pre-Study Visit
Prior to study entry, and after participants have signed consent for study participation, participants
will be contacted (via letter, email, or telephone call) to confirm current contact information and to
schedule an annual in-person visit. Sites may review medical records to collect pertinent historical
data during the intervening period between completion of the previous study and enrollment into
the ARMMS-T2D follow-up study.
Sites can contact participants between date of consent and their first annual visit, as needed, to
retain participants. Relevant data collected (i.e. significant adverse events) can be entered on the
appropriate unscheduled visit form.

7.2 Standardization of Labs within the Consortium
Some of the sites did not obtain and analyze all of the laboratory tests at baseline and year 1 that
are currently listed in this protocol for the annual research visits. When possible, sites should
supply laboratory test results for tests that were not included in their individual site protocols from
analysis of stored plasma and serum samples, or from the medical record if labs were collected
during the intervening period between completion of the original study and enrollment into the
ARMMS-T2D follow-up study.

7.3 Annual Research Visit (± 3 months*)
Annual follow-up visits will be scheduled ±3 months of the participant’s annual anniversary (i.e.,
12-month time point, ±3 months) from entering his or her respective RCT.
Annual follow-up visits should be performed at each site’s clinic / office, but if not possible,
participants should be followed through other contacts as permitted / consented by the subject
(i.e., remote study visits, primary care physician, medical record review, professional laboratory
service or in-home specimen collection kits) and as allowed by the individual site IRB or ethics
committee.

         The following procedures will be performed at each annual visit
            x Anthropometric Measures and Vital Status:
                    x Height
                    x Weight
                    x Sitting BP
                    x Waist Circumference
            x Central Laboratory Tests:
                    x Fasting blood glucose
                    x Fasting insulin
                    x HbA1c
                    x CBC (with differential and platelet count)
                    x Chem 20
                    x Fasting C-peptide
                    x Vitamin D
                    x PTH


Confidential                                                                                        22
Version 6 Date 15APR2020
