                                     ARMMS-T2D Clinical Protocol



96). The Diabetes Control and Complications Trial (DCCT) monitored the risk of developing
microvascular complications in type 1 diabetes mellitus. Compared to patients receiving standard
therapy, those randomized to intensive glycemic control demonstrated greater improvement in
HbA1c and a reduction in the risk of developing or progression of retinopathy, nephropathy, and
neuropathy by 50% or greater.
The United Kingdom Prospective Diabetes Study (UKPDS) provided definitive information on the
relationship between improved glycemic control and prevention of complications in T2D. Patients
with newly diagnosed diabetes were randomized to intensive vs. conventional therapy. Those
receiving intensive therapy maintained lower HbA1c values (7.0% compared with 7.9%; P<0.001),
which was associated with a significant 25% risk reduction (P=0.009) in combined microvascular
endpoints (eye, kidney, and nerve). There was also a tendency toward fewer myocardial
infarctions in the group assigned to intensive therapy. In a sub-group of overweight patients
assigned to intensive treatment with metformin or conventional treatment, those receiving
intensive treatment maintained a 0.6% lower HbA 1c, resulting in a 32% lower risk for any diabetes-
related endpoint (P=0.002), and a 36% lower risk of death from any cause (P=0.021).
These studies both showed that for every 1% absolute drop in HbA1c (e.g., from 9.0% to 8.0%
HbA1c), there was a relative risk reduction for microvascular disease of 25-45%. Glycemic control
to achieve an HbA1c of 7.0% or lower in some of these patients was only possible with insulin
doses >100 units per day, and even then for only short periods of time (96). Only half of patients
with diabetes are currently meeting glycemic goals (80). It is believed that in community settings
where 95% of diabetic patients are treated, HbA1c levels in patients with diabetes typically vary
from 8.5 to 9.0%, suggesting that control with medications outside of clinical trials is difficult to
achieve and maintain. Furthermore, the advanced medical therapy required to achieve an HbA1c
of 7.0% confers a corresponding 2-4% yearly incidence of severe hypoglycemia (96).
Improvements in blood pressure and lipids also need to be considered following bariatric surgery
and medical management, as these important comorbid conditions contribute to the micro- and
macro-vascular complications of diabetes. Moreover, longer term studies of both the DCCT (97,
98) and UKPDS (99) cohorts demonstrate persistent health benefits of earlier glycemic control,
referred to as “metabolic memory”, with emergent cardiovascular benefit over a much longer time
period even long after intensive glycemic control had ceased (100, 101). Together, these findings
demonstrate an urgent need for improved diabetes management options and the potential for
long-term health impact following bariatric procedures, given their profound effects to promote
diabetes remission or improvement. However, to date there are minimal to no long-term term
data on the effects of bariatric surgery on diabetes complications, particularly in patients with
lower BMI (102).

   Predictors of Diabetes Remission
Data from the ARMMS-T2D parent trials together with related RCT data show that not all patients
achieve glycemic control after metabolic surgery without the need for medications, or they are
unable to sustain long-term control despite initial success (7, 9, 12, 13, 16, 54, 62-71). There have
been some attempts to develop statistical models that would predict the probability of remission,
including the DiaRem and ABCD scores (103-105). These models are based on preoperative
patient data including age, BMI, C-peptide levels, duration of diabetes, etc. We have reported
that adding postoperative weight loss to DiaRem may improve predictability (106). The lack of
robust RCT data from a sufficient number of patients and from key demographic groups – e.g.,
patients with a BMI <35 kg/m2 – is currently limiting the utility and accuracy of prediction. ARMMS-
T2D will use exploratory tools to address this issue under Specific Aim 3.




Confidential                                                                                      15
Version 6 Date 15APR2020
