ARMMS-T2D Clinical Protocol

Long Term Diabetes Control
1. Glycemic control: percentage of participants achieving HbA1c < 7.0% on or off
diabetes medications.
2. Diabetes remission: percentage of participants achieving HbA1c <6.5% off
diabetes medications.
3. Diabetes partial remission: percentage of participants achieving HbA1c <6.5%
with or without diabetes medications
4. Diabetes relapse: time from the initial remission to relapse (only defined for
participants with remission)
Body Composition
1. Percent change of body weight from baseline
2. Percent change of BMI from baseline
Cardiometabolic Risks
1. Percent change of cardiometabolic score (UKPDS risk score for CHD) from
baseline
2. Percent changes of cardiometabolic risk factors (SBP, DBP, LDL, total
cholesterol, urine microalbuminuria) from baseline
Quality of Life RAND (SF-36)
1. Change from baseline in SF-36 total health score.
2. Change from baseline in SF-36 two main domains, physical and mental health
component scores, and in eight distinct subscales (physical functioning, rolephysical, bodily pain, general health, vitality, social functioning, role-emotional,
and mental health).
Microvascular or macrovascular events
1. Development of stroke, retinopathy, nephropathy, foot ulcer

4.4 Study Outcomes/Adverse Events
We will collect the study outcomes listed in Table 1 below, which are grouped into fifteen
clusters. Study outcomes are endpoints related with the initial interventions. Meanwhile we will
collect adverse events that are endpoints related with current study protocol (see Section 9.1 for
more details). Detailed definitions and algorithms for determining these endpoints are described
in the Manual of Operations. Some endpoints are also secondary study endpoints.
These will be self-reported and will be verified with medical records. Each outcome/AE and
whether it is verified will be recorded in the CRFs.
We will also collect alcohol usage data using AUDIT-C, the Alcohol Use Disorders Identification
Test (Appendix 4). Although this is an observational study, recommended guidelines for clinical
action to be considered are outlined in the Manual of Operations, should a resulting AUDIT-C
score meet study standardized thresholds for concern.

Confidential
Version 6 Date 15APR2020

18

