                                    ARMMS-T2D Clinical Protocol



Appendix 5
Ancillary Study 1

Working Title: Cost Effectiveness Analysis of Metabolic Surgery for Obese Population with
Type 2 Diabetes

Submitted by: James Gallagher MD1,2, William Gourash PhD CRNP3, Mark Roberts MD MPP2,
Anita Courcoulas MD MPH3
1
  Department of Surgery, University of Pittsburgh
2
  Department of Health Policy and Management, Graduate School of Public Health, University of
Pittsburgh
3
  Division of MIS Bariatric & General Surgery, Department of Surgery, University of Pittsburgh

Possible Collaborators: All interested sites

Keywords: Bariatric surgery, metabolic surgery, cost-effectiveness analysis, type 2 diabetes,
class I obesity

Primary Endpoint: Cost-effectiveness of metabolic surgery in overweight persons with type 2
diabetes as defined by ICER < $100,000 per QALY (cost utility analysis)

Introduction and Background:
There is a growing body of evidence suggesting that surgical treatment of type 2 diabetes with
bariatric surgery is a safe and effective means of achieving durable improvement in glycemic
control in those with severe obesity.1,2 Thus, the concept of metabolic surgery is increasingly
recognized and incorporated into a treatment algorithms for diabetes management 3-5. Studies
primarily focus on class II and III obese population, while class I obesity largely lacks
randomized clinical data. Fortunately, many randomized control trials do include patients with
BMI less than 35 as a part of their larger study, particularly in the ARMMS-T2D Collaborative. 6-
10
   However, many questions remain regarding the proper role of surgery in overall diabetes care
in both obese and non-obese population. Economic evaluations are an important piece in this
overall puzzle.

A recent joint statement by international diabetes organizations suggested surgery should be
considered for patients with type 2 diabetes and class I obesity. 11 While there have been many
cost-effectiveness studies published demonstrating the cost-effectiveness (not cost savings) of
bariatric surgery in the morbidly obese population 12-15, these studies do not include class I
obesity. A study published using gastric banding was published this year demonstrating cost-
effectiveness with an incremental cost effectiveness ratio (ICER) of less than $50,000 per
quality adjusted life year (QALY). 16 However, this was a study performed in Australia and
converted to US dollars and only included gastric banding. There remains a lack of a robust cost
effectiveness analysis in bariatric surgery based on randomized clinical trial data comparing
surgery to intensive lifestyle and medical management for the class I obesity population in the
United States.

The ARMMS-T2D Collaborative has one of the largest populations of randomized patients with
class I obesity for study. By utilizing real world clinical data, a more accurate, applicable
economic model can be developed.



Confidential                                                                                    61
Version 6 Date 15APR2020
