ARMMS-T2D Clinical Protocol

9.0 STUDY OUTCOMES AND ADVERSE EVENTS
Any instances of study outcomes or adverse events will be reported to the local IRB using the
standard forms and procedures that have been established by the IRB.

9.1 Definitions
Study Outcome
A study outcome is any new untoward medical occurrence or worsening of a pre-existing
medical condition in a participant, which could be related but does not necessarily have a causal
relationship with either surgery or medical management of diabetes. An outcome can be any
unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or
disease temporally associated with the use of surgery or a medicinal product, whether or not
related. The investigators have identified a listing of outcomes (see Table 1) from the literature
and clinical experience. Detailed definitions are provided in the Manuals of Operation.
Serious Study Outcome
A study outcome is considered serious if it is fatal or life-threatening; requires or prolongs
hospitalization; or produces a disability. More specifically, it can include any of the following:
x
x
x
x
x

death
a life-threatening experience
inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization
a persistent or significant disability or incapacity
Important medical events that may not result in death, be life-threatening, or require
hospitalization may be considered a serious adverse experience when, based upon
appropriate medical judgment, they may jeopardize the participant and may require
medical or surgical intervention to prevent one of the outcomes listed in this definition.

All outcomes that do not meet any of the criteria for being “serious” should be regarded as nonserious study outcomes.
Severity of Study Outcome
A study outcome is considered to be of moderate or greater severity if it requires medical
evaluation (such as additional laboratory testing) or medical treatment; or if it is a serious study
outcome.
Unexpected Study Outcome
A study outcome is considered to be unexpected if it is not identified in nature, severity, or
frequency of the surgical or non-surgical managements of diabetes for the patient cohort.
Relatedness of Study Outcome
A study outcome is considered to be related to the surgery or medical management if there is a
reasonable possibility that the reaction may have been caused by the initial interventions (i.e., a
causal relationship between the reaction and the research procedures cannot be ruled out by the
investigator(s)). An outcome can be considered to be definitely, probably, possibly, or unrelated,
or relatedness may be indeterminate.

Confidential
Version 6 Date 15APR2020

37

