ARMMS-T2D Clinical Protocol

various exploratory analyses could be performed by applying appropriate linear contrasts. For
example, ࢼૠ૚ െ ૚૙૙ࢼૠ૝ represents the difference of HbA1c percent changes at year 7 for patients
who underwent RYGB alone in comparison to non-surgical patients who exercised 100 hours
under supervision per year, where ࢼૠ࢐ is the jth component of the parameter vector ࢼૠ Ǥ
To perform the taxonomy analysis, it is important to obtain data for the intervention measures,
i.e., ࢃ࢏࢐࢚ . The current registry database has already collected data for some of these variables,
e.g., medication use per year. The data for other variables are available either in the source
documents (e.g., attendance logs) or in the electronic medical health records (e.g., billing
records). For the ARMMS-T2D U01 follow-up period, the study coordinator at each site will review
the source documents and enter the relevant data into the database for all previous years. For
future data collection about these intervention measures, form A1 (see Attachment below) will be
filled quarterly and data will be then normalized on a yearly basis. In the case that there are more
than minimal missing data for some of these covariates (intervention components), which we
recognize is possible for previous years of the study; multiple imputation will be used to impute
the missing values. As another alternative, we will run a simpler model without using the timevarying covariates ࢃ࢏࢐࢚ but using summary statistics (e.g., average exercise time per year) of
each component as time-fixed covariates.
The exploratory analyses will be performed for the secondary outcomes (glycemic control,
diabetes remission and partial remission) as well. In summary, the binary indicator for surgical
and non-surgical groups (Xij) in the generalized linear mixed-effects model (A2) will be replaced
by Dij (indicator for individual interventions) in model (A3) or W ijt (taxonomy components) in model
(A4), respectively.
For all models above, further sensitivity analyses will be performed by including baseline
covariates such as HbA1c, BMI, and all other patient baseline characteristics that differ between
the two groups (p<0.05). An important feature of our study is that a significant portion of the
participants have baseline BMI lower than 35 kg/m 2. All analyses above will be performed for this
subgroup.

8.2 Analysis Plan for Aims 2 and 3
Aim 2 – To assess the longer-term efficacy and safety outcomes in patients randomized
to bariatric/metabolic surgery or comprehensive medical/lifestyle therapy
We will analyze multiple secondary efficacy outcomes in Aim 2, whose definitions are provided in
Table A1. Since most secondary efficacy outcomes (e.g., the percent changes of body weight,
BMI, cardiometabolic risk and quality-of-life scores, etc.) are continuous variables measured
longitudinally, their analyses will be the same as that for the primary outcome (percent change of
HbA1c).
The outcome of microvascular or macrovascular events will be summarized as 2-by-2 tables and
will be compared using the Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test. The safety outcomes in Aim 2,
including major adverse events and complications, will be analyzed in the same manner.
Power analysis for Aim 2
Table A5 summarizes the minimally detectable effect sizes for the secondary outcomes, under
the general assumption that 20% of the patients have missing outcomes.
(1) For longitudinal continuous outcomes, the effect size is defined as the absolute
difference of the two group means at year 7 divided by a common standard deviation,
assuming an AR(1) structure for ࢳࢋ . The study has a power of 80% to detect an effect size
in the range of [0.43, 0.47] with an autocorrelation coefficient in [0.1, 0.8]. For example,
Confidential
Version 6 Date 15APR2020

34

