                                     ARMMS-T2D Clinical Protocol



level will be allowed and the process of study documentation will be completed as specific to this
sub-population.
Consistent with procedures used in our ongoing and prior studies, all participants will be
consented to allow the study team access to their long-term medical record data, especially as it
relates to their pharmacy, laboratory data, and primary care physician, endocrinologists,
cardiologists, and eye care notes, so that diabetes, cardiovascular, and microvascular disease
status of any participants who are unable to attend study visits or are lost to follow-up at study
visits, but do not actively withdraw informed consent, can be tracked through medical-record
data and public records. With local IRB approval, and completion of necessary application
processes, sites such as National Death Index (NDI) may be utilized to determine whether
persons have died and if so, to obtain copies of the matching death records from state vital
statistics office, solely for statistical purposes in medical and health research.

5.4 Early Withdrawal of Participants
Participants may withdraw from the study at any time without prejudice, or they may be withdrawn
at any time at the discretion of the investigator for safety, behavioral, or administrative reasons.
All participants will be followed until the conclusion of the study, unless the subject requests
withdrawal of consent either in writing or as documented in study record by study staff.

5.5 Data Collection and Follow Up for Withdrawn Participants
If a participant discontinues or withdraws prior to study completion, all applicable activities
scheduled for the annual study visit will be performed at the time of discontinuation, if the
participant agrees. Any adverse experiences at the time of discontinuation/withdrawal will be
recorded.



6.0 STUDY TREATMENTS
6.1 Description
The ARMMS-T2D observational follow-up study is not an intervention study. We recognize that
the medical/lifestyle arms of the interventions differed in each contributing parent trial.
Importantly, all of the medical/lifestyle approaches were successful in reducing body weight and
improving glycemic control. The study team will monitor diabetes status at study visits and the
subject’s primary care provider or primary endocrinologist will be responsible for diabetes
management per clinical care guidelines. The study team will notify the subject’s primary care
provider (and primary endocrinologist, as needed) regarding their study participation, using a
standardized letter focused on diabetes status, any urgently needed changes made to their
diabetes therapy at the study visit, or recommendations to chronic therapy. A copy of the study
visit report and laboratory assessment will be provided to the study participant and participant’s
primary care physician. If the subject does not have a primary care provider, assistance will be
provided to identify one.

6.2 Glycemic Target
The HbA1c target for study participants will be <6.5%, unless there is high glycemic variability or
recurrent or severe hypoglycemia. This approach is consistent with the American Diabetes
Association individualized guidelines.




Confidential                                                                                     21
Version 6 Date 15APR2020
