ARMMS-T2D Clinical Protocol

laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy (LSG), Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGB), and the
biliopancreatic diversion. The three dominant procedures used today are RYGB, LSG, and LAGB,
which together account for at least 95% of all bariatric operations performed in the United States.
In non-randomized observational studies, bariatric surgery is associated with improvements in
virtually all obesity-related co-morbidities as compared to non-surgical treatment. This is
especially notable for treatment, prevention and control of diabetes. Moreover, observational
studies suggest that bariatric surgery improves long-term survival (2-8). However, in the absence
of randomized clinical trials, it is possible that these conclusions are biased because healthier
and/or more motivated patients may have opted or been selected for surgical intervention,
providing substantial potential for unmeasured selection bias. It is this potential confounding in
observational studies that most underscores the need for prospective randomized controlled
studies of bariatric surgery.
“Metabolic Surgery” for Diabetes
In 1995, Pories and colleagues published a seminal study on the effectiveness of bariatric surgery
for the treatment of T2D in obese patients (9). Subsequently, the 1st Diabetes Surgery Summit
(DSS-I) convened in Rome in 2007, reviewed the available clinical and mechanistic data of the
time, and concluded that gastrointestinal surgery, or “metabolic surgery”, could be used to treat
T2D in patients with only mild obesity (10). These recommendations were reinforced at the 2 nd
Diabetes Surgery Summit (DSS-II), held in London in 2015, where a multidisciplinary international
group used the Delphi process to conduct an evidence appraisal of metabolic surgery as a
treatment for T2D. DSS-II concluded that metabolic surgery should be recommended to treat
T2D in patients with a BMI t40 kg/m2 and in those with a BMI of 35.0-39.9 kg/m2 when
hyperglycemia is inadequately controlled by lifestyle and medical therapy, and it should be
considered for those with a BMI of 30.0-34.9 kg/m2 if glycemic control cannot be achieved by
diabetes medications (11). However, DSS-II also recognized that one of the greatest limitations
to recognizing and adopting these recommendations was the absence of data from RCTs
demonstrating the long-term efficacy, safety, and durability of metabolic surgery, especially in
patients with only mild obesity (BMI <35 kg/m 2). ARMMS-T2D represents the best currently
available option to fill this unmet evidence need.
Metabolic surgery involving some degree of intestinal bypass appears to exert the most dramatic
effects on diabetes. Approximately 70% of people with severe obesity and diabetes who undergo
RYGB experience disease remission, maintaining glycemic control without medications for many
years (3, 7, 9, 12-17). Data for sleeve gastrectomy and gastric banding in obese patients with
diabetes (18) are less clear. Other than data from the STAMPEDE study (one of the studies that
comprises ARMMS-T2D), there are no RCTs with longer-term glycemic control data for LSG. For
LAGB, there are no longer-term RCT data that can replicate the results achieved outside the U.S.
for glycemic control (19). Therefore, understanding the procedure-specific differences compared
to non-surgical treatment is also an important goal, and this would help inform procedure choice
for patients. For diabetes, which is traditionally viewed as a chronic, progressive disease in which
delay of end-organ complications is the major treatment goal, metabolic surgery offers a novel
possibility: the concept of durable disease remission. Although relapses do occur with long-term
follow-up (14), early and prolonged metabolic improvements may still reduce diabetes-related
complications, with differences increasing over time (20), and with reduced need for anti-diabetes
medications.
There is now strong evidence that diabetes resolves early after RYGB, before major weight loss
has occurred (9, 21). Emerging data demonstrates that these anti-diabetes effects are mediated
not only by reductions in food intake and body weight, but also by weight-independent
mechanisms (13, 22-37). Consistent with this concept, preliminary non-randomized observational
Confidential
Version 6 Date 15APR2020

10

