ARMMS-T2D Clinical Protocol

The ARMMS-T2D study will address major gaps in our current knowledge base and provide longterm evidence to inform decision-making regarding the role of bariatric surgery compared to
medical/lifestyle management of diabetes among patients with mild to moderate obesity.

4.0 STUDY DESIGN
4.1 General Design
This is a prospective long-term observational follow-up study of participants who underwent
bariatric surgery or medical/lifestyle therapy in an RCT at one of the 4 participating sites.
Approximately 302 participants from the four RCT sites will be eligible to re-consent. Appendix 2
provides a summary of the initial enrolled participants at the collaborating sites, their
demographics and potential available participants in the ARMMS-T2D study. Data common
across the four sites will be collected for a total of five years’ follow-up.
Study Population
The study population will consist of adult patients with T2D and mild-to-moderate (Class 1 and 2)
obesity or higher levels of overweight (BMI range 27-45 kg/m2). Specifically, the study population
will include participants recruited and randomized to either bariatric surgery or a non-surgical
medical/lifestyle intervention to treat diabetes and initiated intervention, at one of four sites
participating in the ARMMS-T2D Consortium.
Original inclusion criteria for participation in the RCTs at all sites included:
x

Candidate for general anesthesia or unsupervised exercise.

x

Age ≥20 and ≤65 years.

x

Body mass index >27 and ≤45 kg/m2.

x

Diagnosis of type 2 diabetes confirmed by either requiring diabetes medication and/or
having elevated glycemia based on HbA 1c, fasting plasma glucose, and/or OGTT
results, according to American Diabetes Association criteria (107).

x

Ability and willingness to participate in the study and agree to any of the research
arms.

x

Able to understand the options and to comply with the requirements of each program.

x

Negative urine pregnancy test at screening and baseline visits (prior to surgery) for
women of childbearing potential (i.e., biologically capable of becoming pregnant). This
includes women who are using contraceptives or whose sexual partners are either
sterile or using contraceptives.

4.2 Primary Study Endpoints
The primary endpoint is the percent change in HbA1c from baseline between the surgical and nonsurgical groups

4.3 Secondary Study Endpoints
The following parameters will be analyzed as secondary endpoints. Methods of analysis are fully
described in the Statistical Analysis Plan (SAP).

Confidential
Version 6 Date 15APR2020

17

