                                     ARMMS-T2D Clinical Protocol



        fitting the current body weight data (% of weight change from baseline) from the
        STAMPEDE study shows that the standard deviation of the residual is 6% and the auto
        correlation is about 0.7, which translates to a detectable difference of approximately 2.8%
        between the two groups at year 7. Meanwhile the observed difference is about 20% at
        year 3 (62). Therefore, we expect to have ample power to analyze that outcome.
        (2) For binary outcomes, the minimum detectable odds ratio is 3.03 at 80% power,
        assuming a 10% event rate in the surgical group.

More scenarios of the power analysis can be found in Table A5. We recognize that the study may
not have adequate power for analyzing all these secondary outcomes, especially for some safety
outcomes with low event rates. Since these are secondary analyses, the power analysis did not
adjust for multiple comparisons for the analysis of multiple secondary endpoints.

Table A5. Minimal detectable effect size for secondary outcomes in Aim 2 (at power=80%, two-
sided type I error=0.05, assuming a 20% missing rate of the outcomes)
         Outcome                                             Detectable effect
                                                             size
         Efficacy outcome        Longitudinal                ࢤ=0.47               rho=0.11
                                 continuous variables
                                                             0.43                 rho=0.8
         Safety outcome          Binary variables            OR=3.03              p=10%2
                                                             2.46                 p=20%
1
 For longitudinal continuous outcomes, the effect size (ࢤ) is the absolute difference of the two
group means at year 7 divided by a common standard deviation (the diagonal element of the
matrix ࢳࢋ ); rho is the autoregressive correlation coefficient.
2
 For binary outcomes, the effect size is the odds ratio (non-surgical vs. surgical) and p is the event
rate in the surgical group.

    Exploratory analyses
As in Aim 1, we will perform similar sensitivity and exploratory analyses for these secondary
outcomes in Aim 2, which include analyses of missing data; comparing individual interventions;
and adjusting the results for patient characteristics such as HbA 1c, BMI, and characteristics that
differ between the two groups (p<0.05) at baseline.

Aim 3 – To identify clinical predictors of diabetes remission and relapse
In addition to knowing overall rates of remission and relapse, understanding which pre- and early
post-operative clinical factors are related to these outcomes will give health care providers key
information to identify patients who are most likely to benefit from surgery. Our team has extensive
experience with investigations of predictors for a variety of clinical outcomes, including
successfully identifying predictors of diabetes remission in smaller samples than our current
proposed study (14, 54, 62, 123-125). Toward this goal, we will fit a series of time-to-event
regression models with the outcome being the time to first remission. These analyses will be
viewed as exploratory, with the goal of identifying the factors that are most important from the
broad range of demographic, diagnosis, and treatment data we have access to (e.g., age, gender,
race/ethnicity, bariatric procedure type, measures of T2DM severity and duration, as well as
measures of hypertension, dyslipidemia, and a composite metabolic syndrome score). Although
a large number of variables will be considered, specific variables that are of greatest interest
based on the prior published literature include age, diabetes duration, weight loss, insulin use

Confidential                                                                                       35
Version 6 Date 15APR2020
