                                    ARMMS-T2D Clinical Protocol



                    x Fasting lipid profile (total cholesterol, LDL, HDL, triglycerides)
                    x Iron
                    x Ferritin
                    x TIBC
                    x Vitamin B12
                    x Markers of inflammation (hsCRP)
                    x Urinalysis (micro albumin and creatinine) from morning-void
             x   Labs for Research Repository / Biobank (if consented)
             x   Quality of Life Survey (RAND SF-36)
             x   Medical History
             x   Medication Usage and Vitamin/Iron Supplement
             x   Alcohol Use Disorders Identification Test (AUDIT-C)
             x   Record Study Outcomes or Adverse Events
             x   Schedule Next Visit
             x   Thank you letter and visit summary

The preferred window is ± 3 months, but annual visits will be accepted in the extended window
of up to ± 6 months. Height will be only measured at the initial annual visit.

7.4 Interim Communications and Retention Activities
Three interim visit communications will be performed between each annual visit to help retain
participants in the study and improve communication with them. Additional interim communication
may occur to improve retention at the discretion of the study staff and with approval by local IRBs
as required. All participants will be contacted at the time points indicated below to review health
status, change in medications, hospitalizations, study outcomes, AE’s / SAE’s and other visit
scheduling and retention activity related information
       x   Interim Visit One (3 months after each annual visit, ±1 month):
               o Mail a reminder to schedule the next year’s in-person annual visit, followed by
                   telephone or email contact to schedule that visit.
               o Contact all participants to review health status, change in medications,
                   hospitalizations, study outcomes, AE’s / SAE’s and thank them for their
                   participation.
       x   Interim Visit Two (6 months post annual visit, ±1 month):
               o Send a thank-you “mailer” to the participant in recognition of his or her
                   participation.
               o Schedule the next annual visit if not scheduled before
               o The mailer may include an updated patient newsletter
               o Contact all participants to confirm contact information
               o Review health status, change in medications, hospitalizations, study
                   outcomes, AE’s / SAE’s.
       x   Interim Visit Three (9 months after the first annual visit, ±1 month):
               o Contact all participants to confirm their contact information and remind them of
                   their next annual visit.
               o Review health status, change in medications, hospitalizations, study
                   outcomes, AE’s / SAE’s and thank for participation.



Confidential                                                                                    23
Version 6 Date 15APR2020
