ARMMS-T2D Clinical Protocol

data demonstrate that more patients are achieving blood sugar, blood pressure, and lipid goals
(80). Nevertheless, fewer than 20% of patients with diabetes are meeting all three health goals
simultaneously. Long-term safety of pharmacological agents remains incompletely understood,
and some may impart worrisome adverse outcomes, such as weight gain and hypoglycemia with
many diabetes medications, possible pancreatitis with GLP-1 analogues, and various cancers
with insulin analogues, TZDs, and/or SGLT-2 inhibitors. In addition, very tight glycemic control
might not reduce cardiovascular event rates (81-83), and may even lead to increased mortality
(83). Thus, optimal treatment strategies and glycemic goals for patients with diabetes remain
incompletely understood. Similarly, lifestyle modification (primarily diet and exercise) can promote
successful weight loss, improving glycemia and complications in patients with diabetes (84).
Multidisciplinary weight management approaches are emerging as viable and potentially costeffective treatment options in overweight or obese patients with diabetes (10, 33, 85). Such
approaches, however, often fail to achieve durable weight loss of more than 5-10%. Indeed, over
time participants in the SOS study who received standard medical treatment for obesity realized
an average weight gain of 1.6% over 10 years (86). Importantly, these lifestyle and medical
approaches do not appear to improve cardiovascular outcomes over a follow-up period up to 13.5
years (87). Thus, further research is needed to evaluate current medical and lifestyle therapeutic
regimens for diabetes, and how such approaches compare to surgical interventions.
In summary, there still remain many unanswered questions about the relative clinical utility of
surgical compared with medical treatment of diabetes and obesity/overweight, especially in the
lower BMI range. Addressing these questions will require long-term follow-up of randomized
controlled studies to more completely inform health care decision-making and clinical practice.
Importantly, it is not clear how well diabetes outcomes are influenced over the long term by the
type of surgery or by the amount of weight lost, or if bariatric surgery is more effective than nonsurgical weight loss induced by diet and physical activity and glucose lowering medications in
reducing long-term micro- and macrovascular complications among diabetic patients with more
moderate BMIs (e.g., Class I and Class II obesity). This study will address, in a systematic way,
these important and yet unanswered questions.
It is important to consider the correct comparator to bariatric surgery. It is not appropriate to
compare bariatric surgery to standard of care, as currently practiced. In current practice, the
majority of patients are not meeting glycemic, lipid and blood pressure goals (88). It may be
argued that given the cost of surgical intervention, appropriate medical interventions for
comparison should be much more rigorous, and include approaches such as residential treatment
for several weeks to initiate rapid weight loss under medical supervision, home-based treatment
for several months, with provision of prepared meals consistent with dietary goals and sports or
fitness club memberships (89); however the pragmatic application of such comparison would be
limited. Thus, each medical management arm of the participating parent trials was based on
similar Diabetes Prevention Program (90) and Look AHEAD models (91), albeit implemented in
different ways with focus ranging from predominantly lifestyle intervention in the TRIABETES trial
(92) to an intensive pharmacologic plus lifestyle intervention approach in the Stampede trial (63),
and between in the Crossroads (93) and SLIMM-T2D trials (94). Weight loss at one year ranged
between 5-10% and HbA1c ≤6.5% was demonstrated in ~16-35% of the medical management
cohorts in our ARMMS-T2D Consortium trials (62, 63, 65, 67), demonstrating that the approaches
to medical intervention achieved results superior to those anticipated with standard of care
treatment, but using approaches that are considered reasonable in implementation.
Microvascular Events and Bariatric/Metabolic Surgery
Intensive glycemic control (HbA1c <7%) using medications has been shown to decrease the risk
of microvascular complications (retinopathy, nephropathy, and neuropathy) associated with
diabetes in two landmark randomized medical-therapy trials, both with >10 year follow-up (95,
Confidential
Version 6 Date 15APR2020

14

