                                      ARMMS-T2D Clinical Protocol



applicable regulatory and institutional requirements will be taken into account in the event that a
longer period is required.



12.0 STUDY MONITORING, AUDITING AND INSPECTING
The DCC is responsible for monitoring the conduct of this study. The study will be monitored
according to the Monitoring Plan. The investigator will allocate adequate time for such monitoring
activities and will ensure that the monitor or other compliance or quality assurance reviewer is
given access to all study-related documents and study related facilities (for example, pharmacy,
diagnostic laboratory, etc.), and has adequate space to conduct the monitoring visit.



13.0 ETHICAL CONSIDERATIONS
The study protocol, consent forms, data collection forms, and recruitment materials, if applicable,
will be submitted to each site’s IRB. A site may not initiate any patient contact until it has IRB
approval. All study personnel will have completed training in the Protection of Human Subjects
according to Institutional guidelines.

13.1 Institutional Review Board (IRB)
It is the investigator’s responsibility to ensure that the study protocol and informed consent
documents are reviewed and approved by the appropriate IRB. Each clinical site will obtain a
letter of approval from the IRB before approaching participants. Sites will provide the DCC with
copies of the initial IRB approval notice prior to enrolling the first patient, and subsequent
renewals, as well as copies of the IRB approved consent and other IRB approved forms.
If, during the study, it is necessary to amend either the protocol or informed consent document,
the investigator will be responsible for ensuring that the IRB reviews and approves the amended
documents. IRB approval of any procedures must be obtained before implementing new
processes or procedures.

13.2 Informed Consent Document and Process
All participants for this study will be provided a consent form describing this study and providing
sufficient information for participants to make an informed decision. The informed consent
document will inform patients of their right to refuse any release of their protected health
information. Each clinical site, according to local IRB requirements, is allowed to modify this
informed consent document and make any necessary editorial changes, as long as neither the
meaning nor intent of any section is changed.
The investigator or his/her designee (i.e., research coordinator or study nurse) will inform the
patient of all aspects of the study pertaining to the patient’s participation in it. The process for
obtaining informed consent will be in accordance with all applicable regulatory requirements. The
informed consent form (ICF) must be signed and dated by the investigator or his/her designee
and the patient BEFORE the patient can participate in the study. The subject will be asked to read
and sign the IRB-approved ICF. The participant will receive a copy of all signed and dated consent
documents, and the originals will be retained in the patient’s study file or medical record.

13.3 Subject Information and Consent
Each clinical site is responsible for the confidentiality of the data associated with participants
enrolled in this study, in the same manner that it is responsible for the confidentiality of any patient

Confidential                                                                                         41
Version 6 Date 15APR2020
