ARMMS-T2D Clinical Protocol

Adverse Event
An adverse event (AE) is an adverse reaction that could be related to the current study protocol,
including blood draw, form completion and any related procedures.
Serious Adverse Event
An adverse event is considered serious if it meets the same criteria for serious study outcomes.
Severity of Adverse Event
An adverse event is considered to be of moderate or greater severity if it requires medical
evaluation (such as additional laboratory testing) or medical treatment; or if it is a serious adverse
event.
Unexpected Adverse Event
An adverse event is considered to be unexpected if it is not identified in nature, severity, or
frequency in the current IRB-approved study protocol or informed consent process.
Relatedness of Adverse Event
An adverse event is considered to be related if there is a reasonable possibility that the reaction
may have been caused by the current study protocol.

9.2 Recording and Verification of Study Outcomes/Adverse Events
At each evaluation, participants will be interviewed to elicit potential study outcomes or adverse
events. The occurrence of a study outcome or adverse event will be based on changes in the
subject’s physical examination, laboratory results, and/or signs and symptoms. All study
outcomes or adverse events (except Grade 1 or 2 laboratory abnormalities that do not require an
intervention), regardless of causal relationship, will be recorded in the case report forms and
source documentation.
Medical records should be used to verify each study outcome or adverse event. In the cases that
medical records are not available, the events should also be reported and recorded as unverified.
Any serious study outcome or SAE that occurs after the study period and is considered to be
possibly related to the study procedures should be recorded and reported immediately to the
Principal Investigator at the site.

9.3 Reporting of Serious Study Outcomes / SAE
Investigators will report serious study outcomes or SAEs that are a result of a research-specific
procedure or intervention (i.e., venipuncture) according to their IRB reporting policy. All deaths,
regardless of relationship to the study, are deemed serious and must be reported as a serious
adverse event. The DCC should be notified of serious study outcomes or SAEs within 24 hours
of investigator site’s discovery. Any instances of adverse events that necessitate reporting as
defined above will be reported immediately to the local IRB using the standard forms and/or
procedures that have been established by that IRB. The DCC will inform the National Institutes of
Health of any serious study outcomes or SAEs.
Adverse reactions that are determined by the investigator to be unrelated to research-specific
procedures need not be reported to the local IRB, unless the local IRB requires otherwise.

Confidential
Version 6 Date 15APR2020

38

