PROTOCOL                                                                                              SUNRRISE
             Hospital re-admission for wound related complications within 30 days. These will include SSIs,
              wound breakdown/dehiscence, seromas and wound related pain
             Health-related Quality of Life assessed using the validated Short Form-12 (SF-12) questionnaire
              at baseline, and day 7 and day 30, and the EuroQuol-5 Dimension-5 Level (EQ-5D-5L) at
              baseline, day 7, day 14, day 21 and day 30. Pain at the site of the primary laparotomy will also be
              assessed, using a 10-point visual analogue scale at day 7 and day 30
             Serious adverse events up to 30 days
             Cost-effectiveness assessed using a patient diary for patient reported healthcare resource usage.
              Healthcare usage will be taken directly from the patient diaries and the costs attributable to this
              will be identified
             Patient acceptability of use of their dressing via an acceptability score using a 10-point visual
              analogue scale at day 7, reflecting participant’s assessment of the acceptability of having the
              dressing
             In the UK only, Health professional’s acceptability of use of SUNPD (via a survey of users). This
              will focus on the ease of application of the dressing, the care needed to maintain/monitor the
              dressing while it is in place and an overall assessment of health professional’s experience of the
              dressing



9.3. Trial Assessments
9.3.1. Screening, consent and randomisation
Screening will be undertaken by the clinical team. The clinical team will ensure that the patient meets the
eligibility criteria. Once the patient has been identified they will be entered onto the screening log.
The identifying doctors/nurse/research team member should provide the PIS to the patient. If they are
included on the Site Signature and Delegation Log, consent can also be taken at this stage. If they are not
on the delegation log, consent should be taken by a member of the site research team.


Once written informed consent has been obtained, the Randomisation Form can be populated with
demographic data by the member of the research team, a baseline EQ-5D-5L and SF-12 questionnaires will
be given to the participant to complete. The participant is to be guided to complete the questions based on
their health and wellbeing prior to the start of the episode that requires surgery.


9.3.2. Intervention
Once the pertinent operative details are known they should be added to the Randomisation Form. Following
commencement of closure of the surgical skin wound, the operative details can be added to the
Randomisation Form and randomisation process can take place. The participant will be randomised to
receive either SUNPD or the surgeon’s preference of dressing. The relevant dressing will then be applied in
the operating theatre.


The In-Theatre form will be completed at the end of the operation. If allocated to the intervention arm, the
LOT number of the dressing used will be documented on the CRF. Where possible, the operation note
should not document the dressing that is used to aid blinding at the Day 30 wound review. The operation
note should document that the wound was dressed “according to SUNRRISE Trial allocation” or equivalent.


9.3.3. Day 7 (or on discharge if sooner) assessment
At day 7 (assessment window: Days 5 to 10) or on discharge (whichever is first), the wound will be inspected
to determine if there is any evidence of wound infection and whatever dressing is in situ removed to facilitate
this. If the patient has a SUNPD in place this must be removed on day 7 at the latest. This means that if the
wound review is being performed on day 5, the dressing is removed on day 5 and the wound assessment is

Trial name:    SUNRRISE          Protocol version number:   4.0   Version date:   16-Mar-2021       Page:   25 of 48
PROTOCOL                                                                                            SUNRRISE
performed. If the wound assessment is being performed on day 9, the SUNPD is removed on day 7 and
replaced with a standard dressing until day 9 when the wound is reviewed.


The wound inspection will be undertaken by a member of the research team who has been trained in the
diagnosis of wound infections by undertaking the online module (can be accessed via the trial websites (UK:
http://www.birmingham.ac.uk/SUNRRISE, AUS: https://hmri.org.au/sunrrise-trial), or directly using this
following link: https://bctu-redcap.bham.ac.uk/surveys/?s=DFPM7YMKRJ).


As part of this wound inspection, the Wound Assessment Day 7 or on Discharge (if sooner) CRF will be
completed, which includes asking the participant to rate their wound pain using a 10-point visual analogue
scale. The participant will also be asked to complete EQ-5D-5L and SF-12 Quality of Life questionnaires and
they will be given their outpatient diary. If the assessment at day 7 is undertaken when the participant is still
an inpatient, the questionnaires will be completed using either the forms in the diary or separate Quality of
Life questionnaires (as used at baseline). If the participant is being discharged before day 7 (and hence the
wound assessment is being performed before day 7), the participant will be instructed to complete the EQ-
5D-5L and SF-12 at day 7 post-operatively. These forms will be found in their Patient Diary.


9.3.4. Inpatient data capture
While the participant is in hospital, they will not be asked to complete the daily questions in the Patient Diary.
If the participant is in hospital at days 7, 14, 21 or 30 post-operatively, they will be asked to complete the EQ-
5D-5L assessment (days 7, 14, 21 and 30) and the SF-12 questionnaire (days 7 and 30). It is recommended
that separate Quality of Life questionnaires (as used at baseline) be used whilst a participant is an inpatient
but these forms in the Patient Diary can be used. If the participant is an inpatient at the time of the Day 30
assessment, the Bluebelle wound healing questionnaire does not need to be completed.


9.3.5. Outpatient data capture
Following discharge from the hospital, a Patient Diary will be used to record health care intervention,
diagnosis of wound infection, dressing changes, antibiotics used and quality of life (EQ-5D-5L at day 7, 14,
21 and 30, and SF-12 at day 30). If the date of discharge is after day 7, then the relevant days that have
passed whilst the participant is in hospital will be crossed off by the research team, ensuring that the
participant starts to fill out the diary on the correct day. There will be no collection of health resource usage
whist the participant is in hospital.


To help with completing the diary, a member of the research team will contact the participant by telephone or
text message (as dictated by participant choice) every week to provide assistance and also to arrange their
outpatient review. Prior to the review at day 30, the Bluebelle wound healing questionnaire in the diary
should be completed by the participant. If the day 30 review is completed in person the diary should be
collected from the participant at this hospital visit. If the day 30 review is conducted remotely the participant
should be reminded to post it back to the SUNRRISE Trial Office.


9.3.6. Day 30 assessment
At day 30 (assessment window: Days 30-44; with day 0 being the day of randomisation), a blinded review
will take place. If an in-person wound assessment is not possible as the patient is not able to return for an
outpatient or research visit to the hospital, this wound assessment is to be conducted using real-time remote
video consultation. Telephone follow up assessments of the patient and their wound status can be used as a
last resort. The wound will be assessed for an infection according to the CDC SSI criteria. As part of the
assessment the highest Clavien-Dindo grade of wound complication that occurred since surgery will be
recorded26.




Trial name:   SUNRRISE         Protocol version number:   4.0   Version date:   16-Mar-2021       Page:   26 of 48
PROTOCOL                                                                                             SUNRRISE
As part of this wound inspection, the Wound Assessment Day 30 CRF will be completed, which includes
asking the participant to rate their wound pain using a 10-point visual analogue scale. The participant will
also be asked to complete the Quality of Life questionnaires, EQ-5D-5L and SF-12, if they have not already
done so in the Patient Diary. If no wound infection is evident then the participant will have completed the
study.


Prior to undergoing the Day 30 review, the participant will have completed the Bluebelle wound healing
questionnaire in the Patient Diary. This assessment will be repeated with the wound assessor as part of the
Day 30 review and will allow SUNRRISE to compare results with the Bluebelle questionnaire. However, if the
participant remains an inpatient at the time of the Day 30 assessment, the questionnaire does not need to be
completed by the patient or repeated with the wound assessor.


In order to encourage and facilitate patients to attend their in-person wound review at day 30 (where
appropriate), their travel expenses in the form of taxi fares, public transport costs or parking charges will be
supported.


9.3.7. Assessments after 30 days
A small number of participants will have an SSI that has not healed (ongoing SSI) at the Day 30 review.
These participants will be given a second Patient Diary (Continuing involvement) and asked to complete it. If
the patient is followed up remotely, the patient will be sent a Patient Diary (Continuing involvement) through
the post. When the wound has healed, indicated by discharge from district nursing care or from the care of
the treating clinician, the participant can stop using the Patient Diary and return it to the research team or
SUNRRISE Trial Office. A very small proportion of these participants will have a long term, ongoing wound
infection. It is important to identify and collect data on this small number of participants as they will incur a
significant amount of healthcare costs and influence the health economics analysis. Data on interventions for
wound infections, contact with healthcare professionals and ongoing wound care management is very
important during this part of the data collection. Participants will be asked to continue with the diary until their
wound heals or the trial follow-up period (participants may need several diaries). The research team looking
after the participant will liaise with the participant to find the most practical way of managing the need for
ongoing diaries. This may mean exchange of diaries via post, or when the participant visits the hospital for
another reason.


9.3.8. Patient and healthcare professional acceptability of intervention
In order to assess the acceptability of the SUNPD, participants and healthcare professionals will be asked for
their opinion on dressings that were used. All participants (including those allocated to Surgeon’s preference
of dressing) will be asked to assess the dressing that they had applied. Participants will be asked to rate the
acceptability of their dressing at their day 7 or discharge assessment (whichever is first) using a 10-point
visual analogue scale.


In the UK only, healthcare professionals will be asked for their assessment of acceptability via an online
questionnaire. Surgeons, ward nurses and research nurses will be asked to provide feedback.


9.3.9. Bluebelle sub-study
The method of assessing wounds forms a crucial part of any trial investigating SSIs. The current method
using CDC criteria relies on healthcare professionals evaluating the wound to diagnose an SSI. The
Bluebelle study has proposed a new measure for SSI that can be undertaken by the patient to diagnose the
presence of a wound infection as a research tool27. This tool would, if validated, allow subsequent research
to be undertaken without the need for repeated clinical assessments. The SUNRRISE Trial provides an
opportunity to compare the outcome of the patient delivered questionnaire with the clinical assessment using
the CDC criteria. In order to assess this, participants will be asked to complete a Bluebelle questionnaire at

Trial name:   SUNRRISE         Protocol version number:   4.0   Version date:   16-Mar-2021        Page:   27 of 48
PROTOCOL                                                                                        SUNRRISE
home prior to their Day 30 wound assessment (the questionnaire forms part of the SUNRRISE Patient
Diary). This will be compared to the Bluebelle questionnaire completed with the wound assessor during the
Day 30 wound assessment and the primary outcome measure of an SSI according to the CDC criteria.


As part of SUNRRISE, SSIs diagnosed at any assessment time points in the trial will be compared to the
number of SSIs identified by a one-off Bluebelle questionnaire completed by the patient before their Day 30
wound assessment. The Bluebelle team at the Clinical Trials and Evaluation Unit (CTEU) Bristol will be given
access to a limited selection of data points for them to be able to externally validate the questionnaire.
Participants will be informed of this sub-study in the PIS and will be asked to provide consent for authorised
individuals from the CTEU Bristol to have access to their anonymised data.




Trial name:   SUNRRISE       Protocol version number:   4.0   Version date:   16-Mar-2021    Page:   28 of 48
PROTOCOL                                                                                                                                                                                               SUNRRISE

9.4. Schedule of Assessments
                                                                                 Day 7 post-op Day 14 post-op Day 21 post-op                         Day 30 post-op
 Activity/CRF                       Pre-theatre                In-theatre                                                                                                                        Day 30+
                                                                                  (-2/+3 days)      (± 2 days)           (± 2 days)                    (+ 14 days)
Patient identification
                           On-call surgical team
and screening
                           Patient & Member of the
             Standard
  Patient                  research team

 consent     Delayed      Consultee/Representative &
                                                       Patient & Member of the research team when capacity regained
             (UK only)     Member of the research team
                           Started pre-theatre by the     Surgeon or member
Randomisation form
                           research team                  of the research team
                                                          Ideally an operating
In-Theatre form                                           surgeon, or member
                                                          of the research team
Wound Assessment                                                                 Member of
Day 7 or on Discharge                                                            the research
(if sooner)1,2                                                                   team
                                                                                 Completed by Completed by            Completed by
EQ-5D-5L                   Completed by the participant                                                                                    Completed by the participant
                                                                                 the participant the participant      the participant
                                                                                 Completed by
SF-12                      Completed by the participant                                                                                    Completed by the participant
                                                                                 the participant
                                                                                 Completed daily by the participant following discharge from hospital until they undergo             Patients to continue with a diary
Patient diary
                                                                                 the Day 30 wound review                                                                             if they have an ongoing SSI
                                                                                                                                           Completed by the participant
Bluebelle wound                                                                                                                            independently, and then by the
healing questionnaire                                                                                                                      participant with a blinded member of
                                                                                                                                           the research team reviewing wound
                                                                                                                                           Completed by a blinded member of
Wound Assessment
                                                                                                                                           the research team as an in-person
Day 301
                                                                                                                                           or remote (video) review
                                                          All serious adverse events by member of the research team using SAE form or wound assessment CRF if                        Related serious adverse events
SAE reporting
                                                          excluded from expedited reporting                                                                                          only
Return to theatre form                                    Member of the research team for any return to theatre following patient returning to theatre
PI Declaration form                                                                                                                                                                  Completed by PI at the end of
for CFR data                                                                                                                                                                         each participant’s involvement
 1
     Assessment of pain undertaken by a member of the research team by asking the participant and recording the response on the CRF
 2
     Score of patient acceptability of dressing undertaken by a member of the research team by asking the participant and recording the response on the CRF
Table 1: Table of assessments. Member of the research team is a person named on the local delegation log and given the assigned duty.

                                     Trial name:   SUNRRISE             Protocol version number:      4.0          Version date:        16-Mar-21             Page:       29 of 48
PROTOCOL                                                                                              SUNRRISE

9.5. Participant Withdrawal
Informed consent is defined as the process of learning the key facts about a clinical trial before deciding
whether or not to participate. It is a continuous and dynamic process; participants should be asked about
their ongoing willingness to continue participation and this documented in the participant’s medical notes.


Participants should be aware at the beginning of the trial that they can freely withdraw (discontinue
participation) from the trial (or part of) at any time.


Types of withdrawal as defined are:
        The participant would like to withdraw from trial treatment, but is willing to be followed up in
         accordance with the schedule of assessments and if applicable using any central UK NHS or
         Australian healthcare bodies for long-term outcomes (i.e. the participant has agreed that data can be
         collected and used in the trial analysis)
        The participant would like to withdraw from trial treatment and does not wish to attend trial
         visits/assessments in accordance with the schedule of assessments but is willing to be followed up
         at standard clinic visits and if applicable using any central UK NHS or Australian healthcare bodies
         for long-term outcomes (i.e. the participant has agreed that data can be collected at standard clinic
         visits and used in the trial analysis, including data collected as part of long-term outcomes)
        The participant would like to withdraw from trial treatment and is not willing to be followed up in any
         way for the purposes of the trial and for no further data to be collected (i.e. only data collected prior
         to the withdrawal can be used in the trial analysis)


The details of withdrawal (date, reason and type of withdrawal) should be clearly documented in the source
data and a Patient Discontinuation Form completed. Primary outcome data (SSI rate at 30 days) from
participants who have withdrawn from the trial will be derived where possible from routine outpatient follow-
up appointments or hospital records where necessary. The impact of this on the study findings will be
explored in a sensitivity analysis.


         ADVERSE EVENT REPORTING
The following section relates to adverse event reporting in the UK. Australian sites will report their events to
the trial office at the University of Newcastle and the process is explained in the country-specific protocol for
Australia.



10.1. Reporting Requirements
The collection and reporting of Adverse Events (AEs) will be in accordance with the Research Governance
Framework for Health and Social Care and the requirements of the HRA. Definitions of different types of AEs
are listed in the table of abbreviations and definitions. The Investigator should assess the seriousness and
causality (relatedness) of all AEs experienced by the trial participant and this should be documented in the
source data with reference to the protocol.



10.2. Adverse Events
AEs are commonly encountered in patients undergoing an emergency laparotomy. As the safety profile of
the SUNPD used in this trial is well characterised, it is highly unlikely that this trial will reveal any new safety
information relating to this intervention.




 Trial name:   SUNRRISE         Protocol version number:   4.0   Version date:   16-Mar-21          Page:    30 of 48
PROTOCOL                                                                                           SUNRRISE
Therefore, the recording of selected AEs will not affect the safety of participants or the aims of the trial. For
this reason, only AEs that may be related to the intervention (i.e. until 30-days post-surgery) will be collected
on the Day 7 and Day 30 wound assessment CRFs.


AEs that may be related are:
        Skin reaction to the applied dressing
        Pain/discomfort related to the applied dressing


SSI/wound complications do not need to be reported as this data will be captured during routine CRF
collection.


Participants may suffer from other complications from their surgery but if these are not related to their wound
or the dressing, they do not need to be reported.



10.3. Serious Adverse Events
All events which meet the definition of serious, Serious Adverse Events (SAE), will be collected and recorded
in the participant notes. They will also be reported on the SAE form unless otherwise excluded as detailed
below. SAEs will be reported to the trial office immediately and within 24 hours of being made aware of the
event.


As the dressings being tested in this trial are available and often used within the NHS and Australian Health
care system, there are no Serious Adverse Events which would be anticipated as a unique consequence of
participation in the trial. We would, however, expect the following events to always be reported as SAEs:
    o    Entero-cutaneous fistula
    o    Fascial dehiscence
    o    Death


The following events are excluded from reporting to the SUNRRISE Trial Office and should be recorded
within the participant’s notes only:
    o    SAEs that are related to a pre-existing condition
    o    SAEs that are related to symptoms or progression of the participant’s disease
    o    Pre-planned hospitalisation


Within SUNRRISE, the following events are regarded as SAEs but are not subject to expedited reporting
using the SAE form. They are expected potential complications of an emergency laparotomy and will be
captured on the routine follow-up CRFs:
    o    Interventions (either within theatre, radiology department or on the ward) to drain wound infections
    o    Prolonged hospital stay or re-admission as a result of wound complications
    o    Anastomotic leak
    o    Intra-peritoneal collections (with or without intervention)
    o    Thrombo-embolic events
    o    Infections not related to the wound (e.g. pneumonia, urinary tract infections)
    o    Cardiac or central nervous system complications
    o    Paralytic ileus




Trial name:   SUNRRISE         Protocol version number:   4.0   Version date:   16-Mar-2021      Page:   31 of 48
PROTOCOL                                                                                              SUNRRISE
These events, which meet the definition of serious but are not subject to expedited reporting using the SAE
form will be collected and recorded in the participant’s notes and on the Wound Assessment CRFs on Day 7
and Day 30.



10.4. Reporting period
Details of all AEs that are being monitored as defined in sections 10.2 and 10.3 will be documented in source
data and, where applicable, reported from the date of randomisation until 30 days post-surgery. SAEs that
are judged to be at least possibly related to the use of the SUNPD (unless they are excluded in section 10.3)
must still be reported in an expedited manner irrespective of how long after the SUNPD was used the event
occurs.



10.5. Reporting Procedure – At UK Sites
10.5.1. Serious Adverse Events
AEs defined as serious and which require reporting as an SAE should be reported on the SUNRRISE SAE
form. When completing the SAE form, the Investigator will be asked to define the causality and the severity
of the AE. This will be on a five-point scale (definitely related; probably related; possibly related; unlikely to
be related or unrelated).


On becoming aware that a participant has experienced an SAE, the Investigator (or delegate) must report
the SAE to their own Trust in accordance with local practice and to the SUNRRISE Trial Office at BCTU.


To report an SAE to the Trial Office at BCTU, the Investigator or delegate(s) must complete, date and sign
the trial specific SAE form. The completed form should be faxed or emailed to the BCTU trials team using the
number or email address listed below as soon as possible and no later than 24 hours after first becoming
aware of the event:

 Fax SAE form to:        00 44 121 415 8871       OR      Email SAE form to:      SUNRRISE@trials.bham.ac.uk


On receipt of an SAE form, the BCTU trials team will allocate each SAE a unique reference number and
return this via fax or email to the site as proof of receipt. If the site has not received confirmation of receipt of
the SAE from the BCTU or if the SAE has not been assigned a unique SAE identification number, the site
should contact the BCTU trials team within 1 working day. The site and the BCTU trials team should ensure
that the SAE reference number is quoted on all correspondence and follow-up reports regarding the SAE
and filed with the SAE form in the ISF.


Where an SAE form has been completed by someone other than the Investigator, the original SAE form will
be required to be countersigned by the Investigator to confirm agreement with the causality and severity
assessments.


10.5.2. Provision of follow-up information
Participants should be followed up until resolution or stabilisation of the event. Follow-up information should
ideally be provided on a new SAE form, using the SAE reference number provided by the BCTU trials team.
Once the SAE has been resolved, all follow-up information has been received and the paperwork is
complete, the original SAE form that was completed at site must be returned to the SUNRRISE Trials Office
at BCTU and a copy kept in the ISF.



10.6. Reporting Procedure – UK Trial Office
Trial name:   SUNRRISE         Protocol version number:   4.0    Version date:   16-Mar-2021        Page:    32 of 48
PROTOCOL                                                                                          SUNRRISE
On receipt of a SAE form from the site, the BCTU trials team will allocate each SAE form with a unique
reference number and enter this onto the SAE form in the section for office use only. The SAE form
(containing the unique reference number completed) will be forwarded to the site as proof of receipt within 1
working day. The SAE reference number will be quoted on all correspondence and follow-up reports
regarding the SAE and filed with the SAE form in the Trial Master File (TMF).


On receipt of an SAE form, the Chief Investigator (CI) or delegate(s) will independently determine the
seriousness and causality of the SAE. An SAE judged by the PI or CI or delegate(s) to have a reasonable
causal relationship with the intervention will be regarded as a related SAE. The causality assessment given
by the PI will not be downgraded by the CI or delegate(s). If the CI or delegate(s) disagrees with the PI’s
causality assessment, the opinion of both parties will be documented, and where the event requires further
reporting, both opinions will be provided in the report.


The CI or delegate(s) will also assess all related SAEs for expectedness. If the event is unexpected (i.e. is
not defined in the protocol as an expected event) it will be classified as an unexpected and related SAE.
Events which are assessed as both related and unexpected will be classified as Unexpected and Related
Serious Adverse Event.



10.7. Reporting to the UK Research Ethics Committee
10.7.1. Unexpected and Related Serious Adverse Events
BCTU will report all events categorised as Unexpected and Related SAEs to the main UK Research Ethics
Committees (REC) and Research Governance Team (RGT) at the University of Birmingham within 15 days.


10.7.2. Other safety issues identified during the course of the trial
The main UK RECs and RGT will be notified immediately if a significant safety issue is identified during the
course of the trial.


10.7.3. Investigators
Details of all Unexpected and Related SAEs and any other safety issue which arises during the course of the
trial will be reported to PIs. A copy of any such correspondence should be filed in the ISF.



10.8. Data Monitoring Committee
The independent Data Monitoring Committee (DMC) will review all SAEs.



10.9. Reporting to third parties
Smith and Nephew will be notified of any SAEs that occur in participants treated with their product. These will
be forwarded periodically during the trial and sent as a list of events. No patient identifiable information will
be given to the company. Any such requirements must be defined contractually and the arrangements made
explicit in the PIS.


         UK DATA HANDLING AND RECORD KEEPING
11.1. Source Data
In order to allow for the accurate reconstruction of the trial and clinical management of the subject, source
data will be accessible and maintained. CRFs will be completed at the time points detailed in Section 9.


Trial name:   SUNRRISE        Protocol version number:   4.0   Version date:   16-Mar-2021      Page:   33 of 48
PROTOCOL                                                                                         SUNRRISE
Within the SUNRRISE Trial, source data is the participant’s medical notes generated and maintained at site,
the completed Health-related Quality of Life questionnaires and Patient Diaries.


CRFs will be completed in hard copy at each site with originals forwarded to the BCTU when completed. A
copy will be kept at the local site. The SUNRRISE Trial Office will be responsible for uploading the data from
hard copy into the electronic CRF. The electronic CRF will be held on a REDCap database. REDCap is
secure online database software that allows research teams to collect and store research data. The software
is hosted on University of Birmingham secure servers and only accessible via controlled username and
password access.



11.2. Case Report Form Completion
Data reported on each CRF will be consistent with the source data and any discrepancies will be clarified.
Staff delegated to complete CRFs will be trained to adhere to GCP. CRF completion guidelines will be sent
to all sites and will include guidance on:
        Dates shall be documented as: day / month / year (e.g. 23/Feb/1992) unless otherwise instructed
        Weight and height shall be provided in Kg (e.g. to 60Kg) and cm (e.g. 173cm)
        Trial-specific interpretation of data fields
        Which forms to complete and when
        What to do in certain scenarios, for example when a subject withdraws from the trial
        Missing/incomplete/unknown data
        Completing SAE forms and reporting SAEs
        Protocol and GCP non-compliances


In all cases it remains the responsibility of the site’s PI to ensure that the CRF has been completed correctly
and that the data are accurate. Where applicable for the trial this will be evidenced by the signature of the
site’s PI on the CRF or separate declaration form.


For paper CRFs, the completed originals will be submitted to the Trials Office and a copy filed in the ISF.
Data collected will be transcribed onto the SUNRRISE REDCap database. Sites will return the completed
paper CRFs to the SUNRRISE Trial Office for entry onto the database.



11.3. Participant completed questionnaires
Participants will complete SF-12 questionnaires at baseline, day 7 and day 30, and EQ-5D-5L questionnaires
at baseline, day 7, 14, 21 and day 30.


On discharge from hospital, participants will be asked to complete a daily Patient Diary (which includes the
weekly EQ-5D 5L and SF-12 questionnaires) between their discharge from hospital and their Day 30 wound
review. These will be completed at home with a weekly phone call or text message from the local research
team to remind the participant to complete their diary. The diary will be checked with the participant at their
wound review and any missing data points will be clarified.


As part of the diary, participants will complete a Bluebelle wound healing questionnaire before seeing the
research team at the Day 30 wound review. It is very important that this is completed by the participant
independent from any healthcare professional. If, for any reason, participants have not completed this prior
to their Day 30 wound review, they will be asked to complete it independently before the review proceeds
with the research team member performing it.



11.4. Data Management
Trial name:   SUNRRISE        Protocol version number:   4.0   Version date:   16-Mar-2021     Page:   34 of 48
PROTOCOL                                                                                        SUNRRISE
Paper CRFs must be completed, signed/dated and returned to the SUNRRISE Trial Office by the PI or an
authorised member of the site research team (as delegated on the SUNRRISE Trial Site Signature and
Delegation Log). Entries on the CRF should be made in ballpoint pen, ideally in black ink, and must be
legible. Any errors should be crossed out with a single stroke, the correction inserted and the change
initialled and dated. If it is not obvious why a change has been made, an explanation should be written next
to the change.


Data reported on each CRF should be consistent with the source data or the discrepancies should be
explained. If information is not known, this must be clearly indicated on the CRF. All missing and ambiguous
data will be queried. All sections are to be completed. Data clarification forms (DCF) will be sent to sites
requesting missing data or clarification of inconsistencies or discrepancies. In all cases, it remains the
responsibility of the PI to ensure that the CRF has been completed correctly and that the data are accurate.


Processes will be employed to facilitate the accuracy of the data included in the final report. These
processes will be detailed in the trial specific data management plan. Coding and validation will be agreed
between the trial’s manager, statistician and programmer and the trial database will be signed off once the
implementation of these has been assured.



11.5. Data Security
The security of the System is governed by the policies of the University of Birmingham. The University’s Data
Protection Policy and the Conditions of Use of Computing and Network Facilities set out the security
arrangements under which sensitive data should be processed and stored. All studies at the University of
Birmingham have to be registered with the Data Protection Officer and data held in accordance with the Data
Protection Act. The University will designate a Data Protection Officer upon registration of the study. The
Study Centre has arrangements in place for the secure storage and processing of the study data which
comply with the University of Birmingham policies.


        The System incorporates the following security countermeasures:
        Physical security measures: restricted access to the building, supervised onsite repairs and storages
         of back-up tapes/disks are stored in a fire-proof safe.
        Logical measures for access control and privilege management: including restricted accessibility,
         access-controlled servers, separate storage of non-identifiable data etc.
        Network security measures: including site firewalls, antivirus software, separate secure network
         protected hosting etc.
        System Management: the System shall be developed by the BCTU Programming Team and will be
         implemented and maintained by the BCTU Programming Team.
        System Design: the system shall comprise of a database and a data entry application with firewalls,
         restricted access, encryption and role-based security controls.
        Operational Processes: the data will be processed and stored within the Study Centre (University of
         Birmingham).
        Data processing: Statisticians will have access to pseduoanonymised data.
        System Audit: The System shall benefit from the following internal/external audit arrangements:
        Internal audit of the system
        Periodic IT risk assessments
        Data Protection Registration: The University of Birmingham has Data Protection Registration to cover
         the purposes of analysis and for the classes of data requested. The University’s Data Protection
         Registration number is Z6195856.




Trial name:   SUNRRISE        Protocol version number:   4.0   Version date:   16-Mar-2021    Page:   35 of 48
PROTOCOL                                                                                            SUNRRISE
11.6. Archiving
Archiving will be authorised by the SUNRRISE Trial office on behalf of the Sponsor following submission of
the end of trial report. It is the responsibility of the PI to ensure all essential trial documentation and source
documents (e.g. signed ICFs, ISF, participants’ hospital notes, copies of CRFs etc.) at their site are securely
retained for at least 10 years. No documents will be destroyed without prior approval from the SUNRRISE
Trial Office on behalf of the sponsor.


         UK QUALITY CONTROL AND QUALITY ASSURANCE
12.1. Site Set-up and Initiation
All participating PIs will be asked to sign the necessary agreements, including a ‘Principal Investigator
Declaration’ and supply a current CV to the SUNRRISE Trial Office. All members of the site research team
will also be required to sign the SUNRRISE Site Signature and Delegation Log, which details which tasks
have been delegated to them by the PI.


Prior to commencing recruitment all sites will undergo a process of initiation and will have completed GCP
training. Key members of the site research team will be required to attend a Site Initiation Visit (either as a
face-to-face meeting or a teleconference/video conference) covering aspects of the trial design, protocol
procedures, Adverse Event reporting, collection and reporting of data and record keeping. Sites will be
provided with an ISF containing essential documentation, instructions, and other documentation required for
the conduct of the trial. The SUNRRISE Trial Office must be informed immediately of any change in the site
research team.


To quality assure and standardise the use of the SUNPD, all research team members delivering the
intervention will undergo training on the use of SUNPD. This training will be provided prior to site opening
and will be via teleconference/video conference or a face-to-face meeting. Training will be provided by a
combination of members of the Trial Management Group (TMG) and representatives from Smith and
Nephew.


Study-specific and SUNPD application training can be disseminated to the other members of the research
team by the PI or nominated delegates, such as the associate PI/lead trainee and/or lead research nurse.
This will be captured on the SUNRRISE Site Signature and Delegation Log and SUNRRISE Training Log.



12.2. Monitoring
Sites will be monitored via centralised monitoring from the BCTU. This will include recruitment numbers
including the number of patients approached regarding the trial, randomisation numbers and completion of
the follow-up period.


12.2.1. On-site Monitoring
On-site monitoring will be carried out as required following a risk assessment and as documented in the
monitoring plan. Any monitoring activities will be reported to the trials team and any issues noted will be
followed up to resolution. Additional on-site monitoring visits may be triggered, for example by poor CRF
return, poor data quality, low SAE reporting rates, excessive number of participant withdrawals or deviations.
If a monitoring visit is required, the SUNRRISE Trial Office will contact the site to arrange a date for the
proposed visit and will provide the site with written confirmation. Investigators will allow the SUNRRISE Trial
staff access to source documents as requested.


12.2.2. Central Monitoring

Trial name:   SUNRRISE         Protocol version number:   4.0   Version date:   16-Mar-2021       Page:   36 of 48
PROTOCOL                                                                                             SUNRRISE
SUNRRISE will be centrally monitored, however on-site monitoring may occur if triggered. The SUNRRISE
Trial Office will be in regular contact with the site research team to check on progress and address any
queries that they may have. The SUNRRISE Trial Office will check incoming CRFs for compliance with the
protocol, data consistency, missing data and timing. Sites will be sent DCFs requesting missing data or
clarification of inconsistencies or discrepancies at a frequency and intensity determined by the Data
Management plan.



12.3. Audit and Inspection
The PI will permit trial-related monitoring, quality checks, audits, ethical reviews, and regulatory inspection(s)
at their site, providing direct access to source data/documents. The PI will comply with these visits and any
required follow up. Sites are also requested to notify BCTU of any relevant inspections or local audits.



12.4. Notification of Serious Breaches
The sponsor is responsible for notifying the REC of any serious breach of the conditions and principles of
GCP in connection with that trial or the protocol relating to that trial. Sites are therefore requested to notify
the SUNRRISE Trial Office of any suspected trial-related serious breach of GCP and/or the trial protocol.
Where the Trials Office is investigating whether or not a serious breach has occurred sites are also
requested to cooperate with the Trials Office in providing sufficient information to report the breach to the
REC where required and in undertaking any corrective and/or preventive action.


Sites may be suspended from further recruitment in the event of serious and persistent non-compliance with
the protocol and/or GCP, and/or poor recruitment. The BCTU will report any major problems identified during
monitoring to the Trial Management Group, TSC and the REC. This includes reporting serious breaches of
GCP and/or the trial protocol to the REC. A copy of the serious breach report will also be sent to the
University of Birmingham Clinical Research Compliance Team at the time of reporting to the REC.


         END OF TRIAL DEFINITION
The end of trial will be 12 months after the final participant has completed follow-up i.e. 12 months after the
date of the Day 30 wound review of the last participant. This will allow sufficient time for the completion of
protocol procedures, data collection, data input and data cleaning in preparation for the database to be
locked for the clinical data analysis.



13.1. Reporting in the UK
The SUNRRISE Trial Office in the UK will notify the UK REC the trial has ended and a summary of the
clinical trial report will be provided within 12 months of the end of trial.


A copy of the end of trial notification as well as the summary report is also sent to the University of
Birmingham RGT at the time of sending these to the REC.



13.2. Reporting in Australia
The SUNRRISE Trial Office in Australia will notify the Australian HREC the trial has ended and a summary of
the clinical trial report will be provided within 12 months of the end of trial.


A copy of the end of trial notification as well as the summary report is also sent to the BCTU at the time of
sending these to the HREC.



Trial name:   SUNRRISE         Protocol version number:   4.0   Version date:   16-Mar-2021        Page:   37 of 48
PROTOCOL                                                                                         SUNRRISE
         STATISTICAL CONSIDERATIONS
14.1. Sample Size
The justification for the sample size is based on data from the ROSSINI trial28, which reported an SSI rate of
25% in the control group. To detect a relative reduction of 40% in SSI rates (i.e. from 25% to 15%, so 10%
absolute difference) between groups using the standard method of difference between proportions (2-sided)
with 90% power and a type I error rate of 5% (i.e. α=0.05), requires 336 participants per group to be
randomised, so 672 in total. Assuming and adjusting for a 20% attrition/loss to follow-up rate (based on the
death rate in this population being approximately 10% at 30 days; further drop out 10%), 840 participants
(420 per group) will need to be recruited. Stata 15 software was used to compute the sample size calculation
using the two-sample proportions test.
The 40% reduction correlates with the relative reduction being assessed in other large HTA funded SUNPD
trials, such as WHIST.



14.2. Analysis of Outcome Measures
A separate Statistical Analysis Plan (SAP) will be produced and will provide a more comprehensive
description of the planned statistical analyses. A brief outline of these analyses is given below.


The primary comparison groups will be composed of those who are randomised to SUNPD versus those
randomised to the surgeons’ preferred dressing. All analyses will be based on the intention to treat principle,
i.e. all participants will be analysed in the groups to which they were randomised irrespective of compliance
with the randomised allocated treatment. For all major outcomes, summary statistics and differences
between groups (e.g. mean differences, relative risks) will be presented, with 95% confidence intervals and
p-values from two-sided tests also given. Analyses will be adjusted for the minimisation variables listed in
section 7.3 where possible, and baseline scores (where appropriate). Recruitment centre will be included in
the model as a random effect; other variables will be included as fixed effects. A p-value of <0.05 will be
considered statistically significant, and there will be no adjustment for multiple testing.


14.2.1. Primary Outcome Measure
The primary outcome is SSI within 30 days of surgery, as defined by the internationally accredited CDC
criteria. This outcome is a binary outcome (i.e. yes/no). The number and percentage of participants reporting
an SSI within 30 days of surgery will be reported by treatment group. An adjusted relative risk and 95%
confidence interval will be estimated from a mixed effects log-binomial regression model. A risk difference
and 95% confidence interval will also be provided. Statistical significance of the treatment group parameter
will be determined from the p-value generated by the model.


14.2.2. Secondary Outcome Measures
The secondary outcomes for the trial include continuous and categorical data items.


Categorical outcomes (Wound complications, Hospital readmission for wound related
complication(s), Serious Adverse Events):
For binary secondary outcomes, the number and percentage of participants reporting each outcome will be
reported by treatment group. An adjusted relative risk and 95% confidence interval will be estimated from a
mixed effects log-binomial regression model.


Continuous outcomes (Length of hospital stay after surgery, QoL measures - SF-12 and EQ-5D,
Visual Analogue Scale for pain):



Trial name:   SUNRRISE        Protocol version number:   4.0   Version date:   16-Mar-2021     Page:   38 of 48
PROTOCOL                                                                                           SUNRRISE
Length of hospital stay will be summarised using means and standard deviations, and compared between
groups using mixed effects linear regression models to obtain an adjusted mean difference and 95%
confidence interval. If data are skewed, then data will be summarised using medians and interquartile
ranges, and an unadjusted difference between medians will be reported. SF-12, EQ-5D-5L and the visual
analogue scale for pain at the site of the primary laparotomy are all continuous data outcomes and therefore
will also be summarised using means and standard deviations. The data at both day 7 and day 30 will be
compared between groups using mixed effects linear regression models to obtain an adjusted mean
difference and 95% confidence interval. Data for the EQ-5D-5L is collected at baseline and days 7, 14, 21
and 30, and so as a secondary analysis this outcome will also be analysed using a mixed effects repeated
measures model.


14.2.3. Planned Sub Group Analyses
Subgroup analyses will use the same variables as those in the minimisation algorithm (with the exception of
centre), the operative procedure and country. Subgroup analyses will be limited to the primary outcome. The
effects of these subgroups will be examined by including a treatment group by subgroup interaction
parameter in the regression model. The results of subgroup analyses will be treated with caution and will be
used for the purposes of hypothesis generation only.


14.2.4. Missing Data and Sensitivity Analyses
Every attempt will be made to collect full follow-up data on all study participants; it is thus anticipated that
missing data will be minimal. Participants with missing primary outcome data will not be included in the
primary analysis in the first instance. This presents a risk of bias, and sensitivity analyses will be undertaken
to assess the possible impact of the risk. Any sensitivity analyses will not, irrespective of their differences,
supplant the planned primary analyses. Full details will be included in the SAP.



14.3. Planned Interim Analysis
Interim analyses of major outcome measures and safety data will be conducted and provided in strict
confidence to the independent DMC (see section 16.5). Details of the agreed plan will be written in the DMC
charter and SAP.



14.4. Planned Final Analyses
The final analysis for the study will occur once all participants have completed the Day 30 assessment and
corresponding outcome data has been entered onto the study database and validated as being ready for
analysis.


         UK HEALTH ECONOMICS ANALYSIS
The health economic analysis will determine the costs and benefits of SUNPD versus the surgeon’s
preferred dressing. The economic evaluation will be conducted from the perspective of the NHS and
personal social services.


Healthcare resource utilisation will be collected for each patient alongside the trial through a patient diary
included as part of the CRF. Patients with an ongoing SSI at time of discharge will continue to complete the
patient diary until healing of the SSI. Items of resource use will be costed using national sources and tariffs
such as the Personal Social Services Research Unit and NHS reference cost databases.


Generic health-related quality of life data will be collected using the EQ-5D-5L instrument at baseline and
each follow-up assessment. Base-case analyses will be conducted using the crosswalk value sets for the


Trial name:   SUNRRISE        Protocol version number:   4.0   Version date:   16-Mar-2021       Page:   39 of 48
PROTOCOL                                                                                          SUNRRISE
EQ-5D-5L with sensitivity analyses conducted using the EQ-5D-5L value set for England. Quality adjusted
life years (QALYs) will be calculated using the area under the curve approach, with regression-based
adjustment for baseline EQ-5D-5L score and minimisation variables.


A trial-based economic evaluation will take the form of a cost-utility analysis with results presented as
incremental cost-utility ratios (ICURs). Data will be analysed on an intention to treat basis. Sensitivity
analysis will consider the impact of missing data using appropriate techniques including multiple imputation.
Deterministic and probabilistic sensitivity analysis will be undertaken to explore the robustness of the results
to plausible variations in key assumptions and variations in the analytical methods used. Cost-effectiveness
acceptability curves (CEACs) will be plotted to show the probability of the intervention being cost-effective
considering a range of willingness to pay thresholds per additional QALY gained.


         TRIAL ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE
16.1. Sponsor
The University of Birmingham is the sponsor for this trial in the UK and the University of Newcastle, Australia
is the sponsor for this trial in Australia. Each sponsor takes overall responsibility for initiation, management
and financing of the trial within their respective countries.



16.2. Coordinating Centre
The UK SUNRRISE Trial Office is based at the University of Birmingham Clinical Trials Unit. The Australian
SUNRRISE Trial Office is based at the University of Newcastle, Australia.



16.3. Trial Management Group
The TMG is responsible for the day to day management of the trial. The role of the TMG is to monitor all
aspects of the conduct and progress of the trial, ensure that the protocol is adhered to and take appropriate
action to safeguard participants and the quality of the trial itself.


There are country-specific TMGs for the UK and Australia and the membership of these are listed at the front
of the country-specific protocols. There is overlap between the TMGs to ensure consistency across
sites/countries. The Australian TMG will defer to the UK TMG for all and any decisions that are made at the
level of the trial as a whole.



16.4. Trial Steering Committee
The role of the TSC is to provide the overall supervision of the trial. Membership is listed at the front of this
protocol. The TSC will monitor trial progress and conduct and advise on scientific credibility. The TSC will
consider and act, as appropriate, upon the recommendations of the DMC or equivalent and ultimately carries
the responsibility for deciding whether the trial needs to be stopped on grounds of safety or efficacy. The UK
TSC will supervise the UK sites, while the Australian TSC will supervise Australian sites.



16.5. Data Monitoring Committee
There will be one DMC for the SUNRRISE trial. Data analyses will be supplied in confidence to the
independent DMC, which will be asked to give advice on whether the accumulated data from the trial,
together with the results from other relevant research, justifies the continuing recruitment of further
participants. The DMC will operate in accordance with the SUNRRISE Trial specific charter based upon the
template created by the Damocles Group. The DMC will meet on an annual basis unless there is a specific
reason to amend the schedule. It convened at the end of the feasibility phase to review the safety data.

Trial name:   SUNRRISE        Protocol version number:   4.0   Version date:   16-Mar-2021      Page:   40 of 48
PROTOCOL                                                                                            SUNRRISE
Additional meetings may be called if recruitment is much faster than anticipated and the DMC may, at their
discretion, request to meet more frequently or continue to meet following completion of recruitment. An
emergency meeting may also be convened if a safety issue is identified. The DMC will report directly to the
TSC who will convey the findings of the DMC to the TMG. The DMC will oversee the data from both the UK
and Australian trials.



If participants randomised to the SUNPD arm are doing overwhelmingly better or worse than those not
randomised to this group (i.e. control arm) with respect to SSI rates at 30 days, then this effect may become
apparent before the target recruitment has been reached. Alternatively, new evidence could emerge from
other sources to suggest that SUNPD is definitely more, or less, effective than control. To protect against any
unnecessary continuance of the trial in this event, interim analyses of major endpoints and safety data will be
supplied during the period of recruitment to the study, in strict confidence, to the DMC along with updates on
results of other related studies, and any other analyses that the DMC may request.


The DMC will advise the chair of the TSC if, in their view, any of the randomised comparisons in the trial
have provided both: a) proof beyond reasonable doubt that for all, or for some, types of patient one particular
intervention is definitely indicated or definitely contra-indicated in terms of a net difference of a major
endpoint, and b) evidence that might reasonably be expected to influence the patient management of many
clinicians who are already aware of the other main trial results. Unless this happens, however, the TSC, the
collaborators and all of the central Trial staff (except the statisticians who supply the confidential analyses)
will remain ignorant of the interim results.


Appropriate criteria of proof beyond reasonable doubt cannot be specified precisely, but a difference of at
least p<0.001 (similar to a Haybittle-Peto stopping boundary) in an interim analysis of a major endpoint may
be required to justify halting, or modifying, the study prematurely. If this criterion were to be adopted, it would
have the practical advantage that the exact number of interim analyses would be of little importance, so no
fixed schedule is proposed. Given the proposed use of the Haybittle-Peto boundary, no adjustment for
multiple testing (to control the overall type I error rate) is proposed, i.e. the threshold for statistical
significance at final analysis will still be p=0.05.


A separate DMC reporting template will be drafted and agreed by the DMC including an agreement on which
outcomes will be reported at interim analyses. The statistical methods stated in this SAP will be followed for
the agreed outcomes.


         ETHICAL CONSIDERATIONS
The trial will be performed in accordance with the recommendations guiding physicians in biomedical
research involving human subjects, adopted by the 18th World Medical Association General Assembly,
Helsinki, Finland, June 1964, amended at the 48th World Medical Association General Assembly, Somerset
West, Republic of South Africa, October 1996 (website: https://www.wma.net/policies-post/wma-declaration-
of-helsinki-ethical-principles-for-medical-research-involving-human-subjects/).


In the UK, the trial will be conducted in accordance with the UK Policy Framework, the applicable UK
Statutory Instruments, (which include the current data protection requirements within the UK and Guidelines
for Good Clinical Practice (GCP). The protocol will be submitted to and approved by the REC in the UK prior
to circulation.


In Australia the trial will be conducted in concordance with the Integrated Addendum to ICH E6 (R1):
Guideline for Good Clinical Practice E6 (R2) – Annotated with TGA Comments (9 November 2016) and in
compliance with applicable laws and regulations. The study will be performed in accordance with the

Trial name:   SUNRRISE         Protocol version number:   4.0   Version date:   16-Mar-2021       Page:   41 of 48
PROTOCOL                                                                                             SUNRRISE
NHMRC Statement on Ethical Conduct in Research Involving Humans (© Commonwealth of Australia 2007)
and the principles laid down by the World Medical Association in 2008. The Investigators shall comply with
the protocol, except when a protocol deviation is required to eliminate immediate hazard to a participant.


Before any participants are enrolled into the trial within a country, the PI at each site is required to obtain the
relevant local approvals (e.g. R&D approval in the UK, site specific approval in Australia). Sites will not be
permitted to enrol participants until written confirmation of local approval is received by the SUNRRISE Trial
Office in the respective country. It is the responsibility of the PI to ensure that all subsequent amendments
gain the necessary local approval. This does not affect the individual clinicians’ responsibility to take
immediate action if thought necessary to protect the health and interest of individual participants.


         CONFIDENTIALITY AND DATA PROTECTION
Personal data recorded on all documents will be regarded as strictly confidential and will be handled and
stored in accordance with the Data Protection Act 2018. This is a European Regulation, but, in principle,
compliance with it is required for all organisations that share data with a European entity, hence the
regulation applies to the data management in this study.


Participants will always be identified using only their unique trial identification number and initials on CRFs
and correspondence between the Trials Office and the participating site. Participants will give their explicit
consent for the movement of their consent form, giving permission for the trial office in their country to be
sent a copy. This will be used to perform in-house monitoring of the consent process.


The Investigator must maintain documents not for submission to the Trials Office (e.g. Patient Identification
Logs) in strict confidence. In the case of specific issues and/or queries from the regulatory authorities, it will
be necessary to have access to the complete trial records, provided that participant confidentiality is
protected.


The Trials Office will maintain the confidentiality of all participant’s data and will not disclose information by
which participants may be identified to any third party other than those directly involved in the treatment of
the participant and organisations for which the participant has given explicit consent for data transfer.
Representatives of the Sponsor and/or trial office may be required to have access to participant’s notes for
quality assurance purposes but participants should be reassured that their confidentiality will be respected at
all times.


         UK FINANCIAL AND OTHER COMPETING INTERESTS
This is an investigator-initiated and investigator-led trial funded by Research for Patient Benefit Programme
of the NIHR along with support from Smith and Nephew. The Industry partner is providing the trial dressings
free of charge. They do not have any input into the trial design, data collection, analyses or interpretation of
the findings.


         UK INSURANCE AND INDEMNITY
The University of Birmingham has in place Clinical Trials indemnity coverage for this trial which provides
cover to the University for harm which comes about through the University’s, or its staff’s, negligence in
relation to the design or management of the trial and may alternatively, and at the University’s discretion
provide cover for non-negligent harm to participants.




Trial name:   SUNRRISE         Protocol version number:   4.0   Version date:   16-Mar-2021        Page:   42 of 48
PROTOCOL                                                                                              SUNRRISE
With respect to the conduct of the trial at Site and other clinical care of the participant, responsibility for the
care of the participants remains with the NHS organisation responsible for the Clinical Site and is therefore
indemnified through the NHS Resolution.


The University of Birmingham is independent of any pharmaceutical company, and as such it is not covered
by the Association of the British Pharmaceutical Industry (ABPI) guidelines for participant compensation.


         PUBLICATION POLICY
Results of this trial will be submitted for publication in a peer reviewed journal. The manuscript will be
prepared by the TMG. Any secondary publications and presentations prepared by Investigators must be
reviewed by the TMG. Manuscripts must be submitted to the TMG in a timely fashion and in advance of
being submitted for publication, to allow time for review and resolution of any outstanding issues. Authors
must acknowledge that the trial was performed with the support of The University of Birmingham.


At the Day 30 wound assessment, participants will be reminded of the details of the trial website which they
were given on the PIS that they received. Following completion of the trial, a lay summary of the results of
the trial will be provided on the website for the participants to see the results. Results will be also be
disseminated to patient groups and prepared for news organisations including local hospital newsletters.



21.1. Authorship policy
The main results manuscript of the trial and any subsequent secondary analysis manuscripts using the data
collected in the trial will be published under a corporate authorship policy. An example of this is ‘The
SUNRRISE Trial Collaborators and the North West Research Collaborative and the West Midlands Research
Collaborative’. There will be no named authors in the main authorship line but individuals will be named
within the paper and roles will be defined. All collaborators will be named and will be PubMed citable.


The authorship policy will closely mirror the suggestion published by the National Research Collaborative29.
Authors will be listed as per their involvement within each part of the study/manuscript. There will be a
steering committee, writing group and list of local collaborators. To be included in the list of local
collaborators, the collaborator needs to have been involved in the pathway of at least 6 participants. Local
collaborators will be listed according to hospital and then alphabetically. Local trainee and consultant leads
will be identified. This policy is subject to minor revisions according to journal requirements.


Presentations that result from the trial will follow a similar authorship policy. Where possible abstracts should
be submitted under the corporate banner as described above. It is acknowledged that it may not be possible
to submit abstracts in this form to all conferences in which case named authors can be submitted along with
the study group and two research collaboratives. Any posters or oral presentations should have the
corporate authorship as the main authorship line but may also include the presenting author below this.




Trial name:   SUNRRISE         Protocol version number:   4.0    Version date:   16-Mar-2021        Page:   43 of 48
PROTOCOL                                                                                         SUNRRISE
         REFERENCES
1. Smyth E, McIlvenny G, Enstone J, Emmerson A, Humphreys H, Fitzpatrick F, et al. Four country
healthcare associated infection prevalence survey 2006: overview of the results. Journal of hospital infection
2008;69(3):230-48.
2. NICE. Costing Statement: Surgical Site Infection [Internet], 2008.
3. HES. Hospital Episode Statistics: Admitted Patient Care, England 2013-14 [Internet]. London: Health and
Social Care Information Centre;, 2015.
4. Leaper DJ, Van Goor H, Reilly J, Petrosillo N, Geiss HK, Torres AJ, et al. Surgical site infection–a
European perspective of incidence and economic burden. International wound journal 2004;1(4):247-73.
5. Mangram AJ, Horan TC, Pearson ML, Silver LC, Jarvis WR, Committee HICPA. Guideline for prevention
of surgical site infection, 1999. American journal of infection control 1999;27(2):97-134.
6. Wilson A, Gibbons C, Reeves B, Hodgson B, Liu M, Plummer D, et al. Surgical wound infection as a
performance indicator: agreement of common definitions of wound infection in 4773 patients. Bmj
2004;329(7468):720.
7. Coello R, Charlett A, Wilson J, Ward V, Pearson A, Borriello P. Adverse impact of surgical site infections
in English hospitals. Journal of hospital infection 2005;60(2):93-103.
8. Kirkland KB, Briggs JP, Trivette SL, Wilkinson WE, Sexton DJ. The impact of surgical-site infections in the
1990s: attributable mortality, excess length of hospitalization, and extra costs. Infection Control & Hospital
Epidemiology 1999;20(11):725-30.
9. Reddix Jr RN, Leng X, Woodall J, Jackson B, Dedmond B, Webb LX. The effect of incisional negative
pressure therapy on wound complications after acetabular fracture surgery. Journal of surgical orthopaedic
advances 2009;19(2):91-97.
10. Pachowsky M, Gusinde J, Klein A, Lehrl S, Schulz-Drost S, Schlechtweg P, et al. Negative pressure
wound therapy to prevent seromas and treat surgical incisions after total hip arthroplasty. International
orthopaedics 2012;36(4):719-22.
11. Smith RL, Bohl JK, McElearney ST, Friel CM, Barclay MM, Sawyer RG, et al. Wound infection after
elective colorectal resection. Annals of surgery 2004;239(5):599-607.
12. Watanabe A, Kohnoe S, Shimabukuro R, Yamanaka T, Iso Y, Baba H, et al. Risk factors associated with
surgical site infection in upper and lower gastrointestinal surgery. Surgery today 2008;38(5):404-12.
13. Symons N, Moorthy K, Almoudaris A, Bottle A, Aylin P, Vincent C, et al. Mortality in high‐risk emergency
general surgical admissions. British Journal of Surgery 2013;100(10):1318-25.
14. NELA. The Second Patient Report of the National Emergency Laparotomy Audit (NELA) London: Royal
College of Anaesthetists, 2016.
15. Uchino M, Ikeuchi H, Matsuoka H, Takahashi Y, Tomita N, Takesue Y. Surgical site infection and validity
of staged surgical procedure in emergent/urgent surgery for ulcerative colitis. International surgery
2013;98(1):24-32.
16. Pinkney TD, Calvert M, Bartlett DC, Gheorghe A, Redman V, Dowswell G, et al. Impact of wound edge
protection devices on surgical site infection after laparotomy: multicentre randomised controlled trial
(ROSSINI Trial). Bmj 2013;347:f4305.
17. Achten A. Wound Healing in Surgical Trauma: ISRCTN, 2016 https://doi.org/10.1186/ISRCTN12702354
18. Gillespie BM, Webster J, Ellwood D, Stapleton H, Whitty JA, Thalib L, et al. ADding negative pRESSure
to improve healING (the DRESSING trial). ANZCTR, 2017.
https://www.anzctr.org.au/Trial/Registration/TrialReview.aspx?id=368069
19. NICE. Surgical site infections: prevention and treatment (CG74). London: NICE, 2008.
20. NICE. Surgical Site Infection: Quality Standard (QS49). London: NICE, 2013.
21. Allegranzi B, Zayed B, Bischoff P, Kubilay NZ, de Jonge S, de Vries F, et al. New WHO
recommendations on intraoperative and postoperative measures for surgical site infection prevention: an
evidence-based global perspective. The Lancet Infectious Diseases 2016;16(12):e288-e303.


Trial name:   SUNRRISE        Protocol version number:   4.0   Version date:   16-Mar-2021    Page:    44 of 48
PROTOCOL                                                                                           SUNRRISE
22. Blazeby J. Do dressings prevent infection of closed primary wounds after surgery? BMJ: British Medical
Journal 2016;353.
23. Dumville JC, Gray TA, Walter CJ, Sharp CA, Page T. Dressings for the prevention of surgical site
infection. The Cochrane Library 2014.
24. De Vries FE, Wallert ED, Solomkin JS, Allegranzi B, Egger M, Dellinger EP, et al. A systematic review
and meta-analysis including GRADE qualification of the risk of surgical site infections after prophylactic
negative pressure wound therapy compared with conventional dressings in clean and contaminated surgery.
Medicine 2016;95(36).
25. Macefield RC, Reeves BC, Milne TK, Nicholson A, Blencowe NS, Calvert M, et al. Development of a
single, practical measure of surgical site infection (SSI) for patient report or observer completion. Journal of
Infection Prevention 2017:1757177416689724.
26. Dindo D, Demartines N, Clavien P-A. Classification of surgical complications: a new proposal with
evaluation in a cohort of 6336 patients and results of a survey. Annals of surgery 2004;240(2):205.
27. Macefield RC, Reeves BC, Milne TK, Nicholson A, Blencowe NS, Calvert M, et al. Development of a
single, practical measure of surgical site infection (SSI) for patient report or observer completion. Journal of
Infection Prevention 2017;18(4):170-79.
28. Pinkney T D, Calvert M, Bartlett DC, Gheorghe A, Redman V, Dowswell G et al. Impact of wound edge
protection devices on surgical site infection after laparotomy: multicentre randomised controlled trial
(ROSSINI Trial) BMJ 2013; 347 :f4305
29. Blencowe N, Glasbey J, Heywood N, Kasivisvanathan V, Lee M, Nepogodiev D et al Recognising
contributions to work in research collaboratives: Guidelines for standardising reporting of authorship in
collaborative research. International Journal of Surgery 2017




Trial name:   SUNRRISE        Protocol version number:   4.0   Version date:   16-Mar-2021       Page:   45 of 48
PROTOCOL                                                                                       SUNRRISE
         ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS
23.1. Abbreviations
Abbreviation      Term
ABPI              Association of the British Pharmaceutical Industry
AE                Adverse Event
ASA               American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) Physical Status Classification System
BCTU              Birmingham Clinical Trials Unit
CDC               Centers for Disease Control criteria
CEACs             Cost-Effectiveness Acceptability Curves
CI                Chief Investigator
CRF               Case Report Form
DCF               Data Clarification Form
DMC               Data Monitoring Committee
EQ-5D-5L          EuroQol- 5 Dimension 5-Level
GCP               Good Clinical Practice
HRA               Health Research Authority
HREC              Human Research Ethics Committee
ICF               Informed Consent Form
ICURs             Incremental Cost-Utility Ratios
ISF               Investigator Site File
NHS               National Health Service
NICE              National Institute for Health and Care Excellence
NPWT              Negative pressure wound therapy
PI                Principal Investigator
PIS               Patient Information Sheet
QALYs             Quality Adjusted Life Years
REC               Research Ethics Committee
RGT               Research Governance Team
SAE               Serious Adverse Event
SAP               Statistical Analysis Plan
SSI               Surgical Site Infection
SUNPD             Single-use Negative Pressure Dressings
SF-12             Short Form - 12 Health Survey
TGA               Therapeutic Goods Administration
TMG               Trial Management Group
TSC               Trial Steering Committee
UoB               University of Birmingham
UoN               University of Newcastle, Australia




Trial name:   SUNRRISE        Protocol version number:   4.0   Version date:   16-Mar-2021   Page:    46 of 48
PROTOCOL                                                                                               SUNRRISE
23.2. Definitions

Adverse Event                                AE            Any untoward medical occurrence in a participant or
                                                           clinical trial subject participating in the trial which
                                                           does not necessarily have a causal relationship with
                                                           the intervention received.

Birmingham Clinical Trials Unit            BCTU            The co-ordinating centre for the trial.

Personal Consultee                                         A person who cares for the adult lacking capacity or
                                                           is interested in that person's welfare, but is not doing
                                                           so for remuneration or acting in a professional
                                                           capacity.
Related Event                                              An event which resulted from the administration of
                                                           any of the research procedures.
Serious Adverse Event                       SAE            An untoward occurrence that:
                                                            Results in death
                                                            Is life-threatening*
                                                            Requires hospitalisation or prolongation of
                                                               existing hospitalisation
                                                            Results in persistent or significant disability or
                                                               incapacity
                                                            Consists of a congenital anomaly/ birth defect
                                                            Or is otherwise considered medically significant
                                                               by the Investigator**

Source data                                                All information in original records and certified copies
                                                           of original records of clinical findings, observations,
                                                           or other activities in a clinical trial necessary for the
                                                           reconstruction and evaluation of the trial

Unexpected and Related Event                               An event which meets the definition of both an
                                                           Unexpected Event and a Related Event

Unexpected Event                                           The type of event that is not listed in the protocol as
                                                           an expected occurrence.




Trial name:   SUNRRISE    Protocol version number:   4.0        Version date:   16-Mar-2021          Page:   47 of 48
PROTOCOL                                                                                                       SUNRRISE
      APPENDIX 1 – MENTAL HEALTH (SCOTLAND) ACT 1984
    RELATIONSHIP HIERARCHY
The Adults with Incapacity (Scotland) Act uses the hierarchy of relationships defined in the Mental Health
(Scotland) Act 1984 as the definition of nearest relative. In decreasing order of closeness, these are:
               a)   Spouse
               b)   Child
               c)   Father or mother
               d)   Brother or sister
               e)   Grandparent
               f)   Grandchild
               g)   Uncle or aunt
               h)   Nephew or niece


      APPENDIX 2 – CLAVIEN-DINDO CLASSIFICATION OF POST-
    OPERATIVE COMPLICATIONS
 Grade        Description                                                             Management of wound infections
                                                                                      and other wound complications
     I        Any deviation from the normal post-operative course not                       None / conservative
              requiring surgical, endoscopic or radiological intervention.                   management
              This includes the need for certain drugs (e.g. antiemetics,                   On ward intervention
              antipyretics, analgesics, diuretics and
              electrolytes), treatment with physiotherapy and wound
              infections that are opened at the bedside
    II        Complications requiring drug treatments other than those                      Antibiotic drug treatment
              allowed for Grade I complications; this includes blood
              transfusion and total parenteral nutrition (TPN)
    III       Complications requiring surgical, endoscopic or                               Surgical intervention
              radiological intervention                                                     Radiological intervention
    IV        Life-threatening complications; this includes CNS                             ITU admission
              complications (e.g. brain haemorrhage, ischaemic stroke,
              subarachnoid haemorrhage) which require intensive care,
              but excludes transient ischaemic attacks (TIAs)
    V         Death of the patient                                                    n/a – death and associated details
                                                                                      reported using SUNRRISE SAE
                                                                                      form



 Trial Office Contact Details
 James Brown                                                      SUNRRISE Trial Manager
 Birmingham Clinical Trials Unit                                   sunrrise@trials.bham.ac.uk
 Institute of Applied Health Research                              0121 414 9012
 Public Health Building                                            0121 415 8871
 University of Birmingham
 Birmingham, B15 2TT
 Randomisation service                                             0800 2802 307
                                                                   https://w3.abdn.ac.uk/hsru/SUNRRISE
 Trial website                                                     www.birmingham.ac.uk/SUNRRISE
 Trial social media                                                    @SunrriseRCT

Trial name:    SUNRRISE          Protocol version number:   4.0       Version date:        16-Mar-2021       Page:   48 of 48
