Enhanced Safety Follow-up Procedures

       As detailed in the Institutional Review Board (IRB) safety protocol and published study

protocol, we recognized the need for enhanced safety measures in the unique context of a large-

scale study in the general population. Our approach balanced important considerations. Many

participants may not recognize symptoms of depression as warranting further evaluation – in the

way they might recognize the importance of symptoms such as chest pain, shortness of breath or

bleeding, for example. On the other hand, some participants with elevated mood scores on the

PHQ-8 may not actually have depression and could become unduly alarmed or feel stigmatized

by being treated differently due to these symptoms compared to any number of other potential

health concerns. Furthermore, given that several weeks of processing time are routinely required

to compute score results for each participant in a study of this scope, it was necessary to avoid

creating an expectation of immediate follow-up of mood items noted by participants on the

questionnaires. Following careful consultation with local Human Subjects Research committee

leaders and an independent research ethics team, we developed in this study a unique procedure

to ensure participants are provided timely information and education about mood and identifying

the means for evaluation and treatment, while minimizing potential issues of stigmatization or

exceptionalization.

       Thus, we instituted enhanced follow-up procedures for participants with elevated PHQ-8

scores4,5 in order to provide further assurance of safety. We contacted participants with elevated

PHQ-8 scores (≥10 algorithm cutoff for major depression) at baseline and follow-up by sending

mailed letters, whenever there was no current self-report by the participant of both recent

diagnosis and treatment of depression. Among all participants who scored PHQ-8 ≥15 (validated

cutoff for moderately severe or severe symptoms), we sent these same letters, regardless of




© 2020 American Medical Association. All rights reserved.
